
  - giant plasma tv thought experiment (see snippet)
    - .... or maybe not .. the point here was to create streams of photons generated from the same location

snipped from gizmodo

i’m not a physicist, but the nature of gravity waves is different than
quantum waves in that gravity affects the medium through which it
propagates. so if that’s true, then how could the trajectory and
velocity of a gamma ray burst not be altered? unless there’s some
weird balance between the energy dispersed by a gravity wave on the
objects around it and the trajectory/momentum of those objects.

assuming they’re both moving in the same direction at the same speed,
different phenomena could arise, based on their relative positions. a
different result would occur if the gamma ray burst were well in front
of the wave, on its crest, on its trough or well behind it.

thought experiment: focus on a star just on the edge of the sun. like
the original experiment proving relativity. if the suns gravity were
to increase quickly, the trajectory of the light from that star would
change. it would appear slightly further away from the sun.

now consider 3 equidistant parallel light rays emerging orthogonally
from a large-bodied object like the sun. r0 is the center ray, r1 and
r2 are the outer, equidistant rays. now increase gravity at the
source. assuming symmetry, those same parallel rays should bend
inwards intersect at a point far away from the star, but at different
times since they travelled different distances. ray r0 should be
further outward than r1 & r2, since it had a straight path. r1 & r2
will intersect the path of r0 at the same time, since everything is
symmetric.

p0: the origin of ray r0. p1: the intersection point on r0 of rays r1
and r2. p2: the position of a photon on ray r0 when r1 and r2
intersect.

this is getting more complicated than i intended. it really helps to
visualize these light rays as paths, instead of traveling photons. now
increase gravity again and p1 is closer to the star. the proportion of
p2/p0 to p1/p0 has increase. decrease gravity and that proportion
decreases

if you then visualize an idealized gravity wave propagating along with
these rays, it would cause p1 to be closer, then farther from the star
as it increased/decreased gravity. assuming the gravity wave and
photons are traveling at c, the speed of light, then a gravity wave
likely won’t both increase & decrease gravity for a single photon,
unless that photon’s path is significantly curved by the wave in
relation to the direction of the gravity wave. it’s tricky because
gravity and light move at c and so any effect is minute.

i’m rambling at this point, but i think this is a useful thought
experiment for understanding how gravity affects space, even though
it’s a bit idealized. yet, after thinking about this, it just seems
that gravity waves would break some kind of invariance in relativity,
or at least my understanding of it. for a gamma ray burst with all
photons moving parallel with a gravity wave, wouldn’t the distribution
of photons in that beam show a doppler shift? they definitely would,
if the photons were not all moving parallel with the gravity
wave. what i mean by a break in invariance is it’s odd that just
because a photon is moving exactly in line with a gravity wave, it
wouldn’t exhibit any effect at all on it.
