---
layout: inner
title: Writing
permalink: /writing/
---

{:center: style="text-align: center;"}

## [Writing On Writing and Other Writings](#writing-on-writing)

#### &#x2605; [American Eros: Or How to Fell a Souley](/posts/2016-07-07-american-eros-or-how-to-fell-a-souley.html)

#### &#x2605; [If I Had the Chops to Write My Daedalian Magnum Corpus](/posts/2016-06-23-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus.html)

#### &#x2605; [Oneironautics: Questing for Lucidity](/posts/2016-05-14-oneironautics-questing-for-lucidity.html)

## [Medical Sciences](#medical-sciences)

#### &#x2605; [Divergents: Measurements and Inference](/posts/2016-06-17-divergents-and-directional-antennae-2-measurement-and-inference.html)

#### &#x2605; Unified Theory of Metanomics (coming soon)

## [Facets of Greatness](#facets-of-greatness)

#### &#x2605; [Facets of Greatness: Intro](/posts/2016-05-12-facets-of-greatness-intro.html)

#### &#x2605; [Monumental Accidents](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html)

## [Linguistics and Semiotics](#linguistics-and-semiotics)

#### &#x2605; [The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language](/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html)

#### 5,000 BC (mention theory of language evolution)

## [Consciousness](#consciousness)

#### &#x2605; [Neural Networks and Spider Brains](/posts/2015-11-21-neural-networks-and-spider-brains.html)

#### &#x2605; [Consiousness as a Continuum: Life, the Cosmos and You](/posts/2016-07-12-consciousness-as-a-continuum-life-the-cosmos-and-you.html)

## [God and Religion](#god-and-religion)

#### &#x2605; [The Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html)

#### &#x2605; [I’m Not Religious, I’m Spiritual: God Is Not Dead](/posts/2016-06-01-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-1-God-is-not-dead.html)

#### &#x2605; [I’m Not Religious, I’m Spiritual: Of God and Atheisms](/posts/2016-06-05-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-2-of-God-and-atheisms.html)

#### &#x2605; [I’m Not Religious, I’m Spiritual: A Lighthouse in a Storm](/posts/2016-07-01-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-3-a-lighthouse-in-a-storm.html)

## [Epistemology](#epistemology)

#### &#x2605; [From the Parapets of Alexandria](2016-08-01-from-the-parapets-of-alexandria-knowledge-extinction-events.html)

#### &#x2605; [Epistemology, Cognition and Category Theory](/posts/2015-08-23-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-one.html)

## [Postmodernism and Metamodernism](#postmodernism-and-metamodernism)

#### &#x2605; [Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html)

#### &#x2605; [Death of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-17-the-death-of-creativity.html)

## [Physical Sciences](#physical-sciences)

#### &#x2605; [Divergents: Directional Antennae](/posts/2016-06-16-divergents-and-directional-antennae.html)

## [Political Philosophy](#political-philosophy)

#### &#x2605; [Congressional Power Structures](/posts/2016-07-14-facets-of-greatness-congressional-power-structures.html)



TODO: edit and/or cut =================================================

I really just want to be a part of a community where I can talk to
people about intellectual things. E.G. Philosophy, Epigenetics,
Mathematics. I want to work hard to progress, but I don't make money
from any of this. I'd love to get feedback, so please, leave what you
can in the comments!

TODO:

- section on business pursuits and
- move this to about me? i at least need a link from the top
  - the problem with my site and the content is that it is not
    navigable. there's no discovery, aside from the tag cloud, which
    needs to be adjusted...
  - there's no way for people to discover what is relevant to them
  - it's almost a blessing that i'm able to write about so many
    topics. this makes it easy to market from one standpoint and hard
    to market my writing/blog from another standpoint
    - on one hand, i can post as many links as i want, rotating
      through various channels
      - i'll never exhaust my content and my channels. EVER!
    - i can consistently generate sessions and high (10:00-30:00)
      average session times!
      - however, this takes quite a lot of work
    - on the other hand, a visitor to my website is mostly unable to
      sort through to find the stuff that is interesting to them
      - or identify what i've written and why.
      - that's kinda the purpost of this. it's an overview of the
        things i've written. and in less than 4,000ish words people
        get an overview of the better content.

## Thanks For Reading!

Anyways, I deal with people who are just going for the legs
basically. They want to make me unsure of myself by insulting me and
deriding my work, all while preventing me from having the opportunity
to connect with others. Someone recently attacked me for being proud
of the fact that I’ve published 45,000 words on my blog since
July. That’s ridiculous. She attacked me by saying that the definition
of “published” requires some authority to bless the content for
“publication.” I don’t care if anyone publishes my writing. It’s just
some random person discrediting me by attacking my ideas, hoping that
no one else will give them a chance. We went back and forth on
Facebook until there were 200 comments LMAO. Why would they waste the
time?

I’m self-taught, so my style and form isn’t “academic.” The only
philosophy book I’ve completely read is The Republic. I got halfway
through Ethics. I know my writing has problems, but my ideas are
original AFAIK. Some of them are anyways or at least they could be. My
point is, the ideas behind my writing are interesting. They are
fascinating, if I may say so myself. Sometimes, these ideas mirror
some that have been discussed ad infinitum. And sometimes they are
completely original and worthy of at least criticism!

TODO: edit and/or cut =================================================


<a name="writing-on-writing" />

# [Writing On Writing. And a Short Story](#writing-on-writing)

### [American Eros: Or How to Fell a Souley]()

This is a pitch for a revolutionary new concept. Well, kinda... I’m
calling this an episaga. There have been open source and collaborative
books before. However, this is an open source myth and the idea is
that people will each tell their own story or fork off another, while
keeping several fixpoints constant. That is, there are several
invariant plot points, which should mostly stay the same. And other
people would contribute towards them. The fixpoints should be as
generic as possible and there should only be a handful. Ideally just
one or two.

I actually pitched this idea as part of a practice in a
quasi-religion. It's called oneiroism. The idea is that we need to
protect individuality and find a way to stand up against
nihilism. This accomplishes both. Everyone would have their version of
a particular story which would be a meditation on something like Love
or Justice or Heroism.

By maintaining their personal version through their life or
collaborating with others on their version of a particular story, they
are developing their ability to recognize/utilize/strengthen those
traits in themselves and others. Furthermore, it represents
individuality for the sake of individuality as we approach the end of
individuality. Individuality can provide us with drive and
purpose. This can help us stand up against nihilism.

I don’t see anyone else talking about ideas like this. I know there
are people like that out there, but I might talk to less than five
people per week. Oh Tyche, might thee shine on me...

### [If I Had the Chops to Write My Daedalian Magnum Corpus](/posts/2016-)

This isn’t really philosophy, but it’s about empowering people who’d
want to write … I guess? My heads getting a bit big here LOL. I wanted
to describe my own writing process, for my own purposes as a writer.
So I ended up writing this. The second part is still incomplete, but
is mostly available in the drafts branch on Github ... for now.

<a name="medical-sciences" />

# [Medical Sciences](#medical-sciences)

<a name="facets-of-greatness" />

# [Facets of Greatness](#facets-of-greatness)

TODO: blurbs about some of the articles and the inspiration that drove them

What is it that sparks great people to identify those things they're
known for? And I don't mean their accomplishments, but the subtle
aspects of their craft that they care so much about because they've
realized something the rest of us missed.  (examples?)


TODO: which articles to link/summarize?


This is a series on Leadership. I've linked to interesting
articles. Actually, they're all interesting.

<a name="consciousness" />

# [Consciousness](#consciousness)

TODO: edit & link stanford article

- mention importance of Andrew Ng's Machine Learning classes & Dan
  Boneh's Crypto classes on teaching me the math fundamentals to
  envision anything beyond the basics.
  - if it hadn't been for Coursera and free education expanding my
    mind, I never would have gotten anywhere.
  - at the same time, i would have prefered the academic experience or
    at least a more social experience, but that just doesn't work for
    me.  explain? or cut?

# &#x2605; [The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language](/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html)

This post pitches possibility of some language which constructed to
mirror the kernel or apex of the structure of knowledge. It is built
from the most basic structures of information. The thesis for this one
is: the need to communicate & establish protocols without having to
cross vast distances implies that every sufficiently advanced
civilization would eventually uncover an identical language to
communicate ideas, given enough time and development.

This is one of the articles for which I received significant backlash…
from my family, who knows nothing about philosophy. I sat on the
outline for months. The morning I was going to publish it (a few hours
before) they sat me down and threatened to send me to the looney
bin. And that’s basically my life. I’m lucky if I don’t get sent off
for “treatment.” The way they approached handling me that day was
reactive to my writing. Weird, right? My mom, brother and sister each
refuse to read anything that I write. That’s so weird. They claim that
it sounds crazy, I’m crazy and that I should just get a job.

This article establishes the basis for a universal language.
“Consciousness as a Continuum” establishes the possibility of a
pre-existing medium through which we can all communicate
instantly. Through the entire universe! Or at least, I entertain this
idea. This has VAST implications for EPISTEMOLOGY and TECHNOLOGY!! I
haven’t really heard anyone discuss this! So, how can someone say this
isn’t philosophy and that it belongs on a futurism subreddit?! That’s
fucking crazy!

# &#x2605; [Consiousness as a Continuum: Life, the Cosmos and You](/posts/2016-07-12-consciousness-as-a-continuum-life-the-cosmos-and-you.html)

This article undermines the Singularity by posing the possibility of
threshold at which all civilizations in the universe will become
capable of instant communication with all others. Thus, instant
transmission of data & experience & knowledge to other civilizations.
Imagine a galactic economy, where your value is established by the
supply of computational power you can contributed to this cosmic
quantum supercomputer to the sky!

This article generated controversy on Reddit's Philosophy channel,
though moderators quickly removed it. Users in other subreddits and a
few not-very-supportive readers critiqued my work as rambling, but
didn't actually demostrate knowledge of the content. This further
demonstrates their lack of familiarity with my subject matter in
general! THANK YOU CLUELESS READERS! You just proved my content was
novel!

Regarless, this piece's "rambling" nature is proof of genius: I didn’t
have an outline; no one told me about this idea; I sat down one
afternoon and just wrote until I published it.

# &#x2605; [Neural Networks and Spider Brains](/posts/2015-11-21-neural-networks-and-spider-brains.html)

This is an article about consciousness that ties in nicely with
“Consciousness as a Continuum” and “The Nature of Space, Time and
Information Implies Universal Language.” It covers how a spider
processes sensory information via insights its neural networks must
make. This piece covers the lower levels of consciousness and more
completely describes what I call the window of consciousness in later
essays. These lower level neural networks drive insights which are
provided to that window of consciousness, which the spider uses to
drive its actions and behaviors.

Want to know why I wrote this article? I was procrastinating and I saw
a spider on the wall. And so I frantically typed up an outline. This
is my Newton's Apple, if I have one. As I watched and interacted, I
realized that, at some level, it must be capable of recognizing
objects, types of objects, actions and types of actions in order to
“inform” it’s actions. This post requires understanding of
consciousness, neurology, machine learning and other somewhat esoteric
fields.

But … it could also lead to important insights for Artificial
Intelligence? I guess? I don’t know. But that right there is my
genius: I don’t fucking know! I also don’t know why I have sixty cents
to my name. Philosophy is spooky and dangerous!! Don’t think too hard
about how you think!

<a name="linguistics-and-semiotics" />

# [Linguistics and Semiotics](#linguistics-and-semiotics)

<a name="god-and-religion" />

# [God and Religion](#god-and-religion)


## [The Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html)

TODO: edit

For that series and, in particular, for “Nature of God”, I thought
that if I bait skeptical readers into attacking me by saying that my
use of language is just smattering, then I’m free to respond by
saying: actually, for a scientist/atheist, you’re not as intelligent
as you might seem because you don’t understand A,B,C scientific idea
or mathematic process. If you claim that you don’t understand, then
you either didn’t understand those metaphors/allusions or you stopped
reading right after the beginning. Either way, it’s like rhetorical
jujitsu because some of my readers are going to respond in that manner
anyways, regardless of the merit of my work & thought.

And guess what? I was been attacked for just that! For using
expressive language! I was told “the academic world doesn’t need
people like that!” LMAO, seriously? WTF? The same user informed me
that she created a Reddit account just to message me. I have no idea
who it was, but I have some ideas … I think? ……


### [I’m Not Religious: I’m Spiritual]()

TODO: link 3 posts

TODO: edit

This is a three-part series arguing for the value of religion. Part
one refutes Nietzsche’s hypothesis that “God is Dead.” It does so
using some pretty convoluted language. This was an intentional
direction in style. I wanted to use scientific imagery to appeal to
atheists and scientists in particular. I also expected these same
people to be the first to dismiss my work. No one really takes me
seriously LOL (and it is something that I am well-acquainted with)

<a name="epistemology" />

# [Epistemology](#epistemology)

The metaphysical structure representing the sum of all human knowledge
greatly exceeds the computational capacity of the universe, implying
that the universe can never observe in totality the knowledge
contained within it.

## &#x2605; Epistemology, Cognition and Category Theory

TODO: edit & link 3 parts

This is an unfinished series on the mind and its connections to the
nature of knowledge and cognition. Readers need an understanding of
neurology, psychology, cognition, metacognition, philosophy, category
theory (math) and epistemology. By combining knowledge from
developmental, behavioral and cognitive psychology, we should be able
to learn how we learn. As we become familiar with this, we should be
able to accelerate our development to learn better, faster, harder …

This post uses an incorrect set of terms for describing epistemology,
but that’s because I basically don’t know the proper vocabulary terms
for the concepts I’m talking about. I’ve got a lot to learn. The first
part is an intro. The second part discusses specific elements of our
mind. It states that our brain is modular and our mind is powered by
dynamically combining these modular elements. It then asserts that if
we develop/improve some of these modular elements through some
specific skill or hobby that those improvements should carry over to
other skills that rely on any of those elements. Part three briefly
enumerates some of the skills/hobbies that work best for this. It
describes how and why these skills help our mind function more
proficiently.

Eventually I will write part four and five, which provide a model for
knowledge that’s based on category theory. Some people at Stanford
have already written about this, so it’s not new, but it is powerful.


<a name="postmodernism-and-metamodernism" />

# [Postmodernism and Metamodernism](#postmodernism-and-metamodernism)

These two articles cover social and cultural problems that will take
root as technology evolves more rapidly. These are most definitely
philosophical questions and I would argue that understanding
philosophical problems could never be more important than at the
current moment. Paradox of Creativity was the first article I posted
on [/r/philosophy]()

Figuring out how to stave off nihilism and the death of individuality
is our Riddle of the Sphinx. The roots of almost all 21st century
social & cultural problems will be partially composed of nihilism or
the death of individuality. Those two concepts will cripple and
demoralize us at a time in history when we MUST remain as strong as we
could possibly be.

## [Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html)

I posted the “Paradox of Creativity” in early June. It was my first
post on reddit. It was deleted in six hours, but had already
accumulated 2,500 sessions and 50 comments! My first post on reddit!!
IN SIX HOURS!!

That is validation. It doesn’t matter what you say or whether you
blessings allow me an opportunity to have my writing critiqued. My
writing has been validated by the simple fact that thousands of people
visited my site in six hours. When I saw that number, I thought there
must be something wrong! NOPE!

## [Death of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-17-the-death-of-creativity.html)

blurb...


<a name="physical-sciences" />


# Physical Sciences

# [Political Philosophy](#political-philosophy)
