---
title: "Seven Negative Career Experiences"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology psychology bullying"
headline: "Seven Different Instances Where I Was Emotionally Abused at
my Workplace"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
After the party, we hung out a bit in Boulder's Central Park.  Then, I
asked her back to the apartment.  We were walking back, but about
halfway there, I told her about the bedbugs.  She freaked out.  Here's
the punchline: A fucking homeless girl wanted nothing to do with my
bedbug ridden apartment!
"
---

I've written about
[workplace bullying](/posts/2015-02-21-workplace-bullying-part-one)
and, more important,
[tools for standing up against manipulative behavior](/posts/2015-02-26-workplace-bullying-part-four)
in a positive way.  I've dealt with this time and time again in my
career and in my personal life.  In fact, I still haven't recovered
from the emotional trauma from certain events.  So it should come as
no surprise to anyone that I cannot stand manipulative people and
those who support or shield them.

So I'm going to detail specific instances where I was emotionally
abused. Some of these are embarrassing. I honestly don't care
anymore.

### [Gaslighting](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslighting)

Also, please note that my own family has been basically isolating
(read: disconnecting) me for damage control and to save face. They
have practically forced me to remove this blog and others describing
my life and workplace abuse from the web. But here they are again! I
will not go through this *bullshit* and have *NOTHING* to show for it!

**TL;DR; scientology**

> **Warning:** do not tell me that I'm *"living in the past."*

# Seven Different Reasons to Sue:

### &#x2696; [Gluten Intolerance](#gluten-intolerance)

### &#x2696; [A Toilet Exploded On Me](#a-toilet-exploded-on-me)

### &#x2696; [I Couldn't Encrypt My Harddrive](#i-couldnt-encrypt-my-harddrive)

### &#x2696; [OMFG the Bedbugs](#OMFG-the-bedbugs)

### &#x2696; [Homeless for Several Weeks](#homeless-for-several-weeks)

### &#x2696; [Caught in Merger Politics](#caught-in-merger-politics)

### &#x2696; [Scientologists 'Audited' Me at Work](#scientologists-audited-me-at-work)

<a name="gluten-intolerance" />

# &#x2696; [Gluten Intolerance](#gluten-intolerance)

So a few years ago, I started having digestive issues and, for the
longest time, I couldn't figure out what was wrong.  I knew there was
something in my diet that was causing problems -- I.E. 'fatty' stools.
I knew I had a food allergy, but I couldn't pinpoint what it was.  All
I knew was greasy foods were to be avoided.  Hamburgers were terrible.
Pizza was the worst and that was my favorite food.

Usually, it wasn't so bad, but there were times when it was terrible.
However, it was incredibly embarrassing and the smell would literally
follow me around for hours...  Unless I took a shower.  And no, it's
not bc I shit myself.  So I have to leave work when it happens.  The
problem is that I haven't driven in years!!  Technically, I have a
license now, but I don't have a car.  So if this happens, while I'm at
work, I'm fucked.  I can't drive home to take a shower.  And even if I
can, I have to mysteriously leave work in the middle of the day.

Fortunately, when something like this happens, people know there's
something wrong.  If they're good people and they actually care about
you, they'll ask -- *privately*.  And they'll offer to help you avoid
embarrassment.  **However, if you're surrounded by opportunistic
manipulative assholes**, this can be a chance to weaken connections
you have with other people at work.  *Ewwww, that guy smells like
shit, is he retarded or something?  How can he not know?*.  If you
have coworkers that really are trying to cut you off and get rid of
you, this can be particularly effective, albeit a bit mean, donchya
think?

At one particular place I worked, I started having these issues
multiple times every week.  The increase in frequency was probably
related to the stress and undue emotional duress I was experiencing.
And when I left work in the middle of the day to take a shower, so I
wouldn't ummm *smell like shit*, it became yet another reason to
attack me.

And telling my manager that I needed to leave because I was sick
wasn't working because he had a tendency to respond inappropriately
when I trusted him with information.  In other words, if he was the
only person I told about being sick or being late or something like
that, it was as if I'd never said anything to him at all.  The only
way I could get him to respond appropriately to a situation like this
was to make everyone aware of it.  Not only did I have to constantly
stay on top of my work, I had to expend a ton of effort making sure
everyone was aware of what I was doing, why I was doing it, how I was
doing it, etc.

If I didn't take the initiative to make my coworkers aware of
everything, then my work/actions would invariably be publicly
misinterpreted by my manager.  And *always* in a way that would lead
to negative attention to me from my coworkers.  Basically, if I left
my manager *any* wiggleroom to distort the truth, he would.  I've
dealt with this in the past once or twice from a workplace bully, but
only once from my manager.  I even tested this by making my coworkers
aware of certain information that would prevent them from
misinterpreting what I'd done, but leaving my manager in the dark.  I
was testing to see if/how he would negatively spin my performance,
publicly, if he thought he could get away with it and he did.

Sounds paranoid, doesn't it?  I don't usually act in such a way at
work by the way.  Same team, right?! For me, the problem with his
behavior is that I'm a quiet person -- it takes a lot of effort for me
to communicate every single detail to my coworkers.  I shouldn't have
to do that just to protect my ass from an opportunistic person who
tries to contort anything left unclear and left to chance.  I've dealt
with my share of manipulative assholes in the past.  I have a ton of
experience with it.  I know how to deal with it, but the first thing I
try to do is ignore it.  I really don't want to spin my wheels,
expending a ton of effort playing someone else's games.

Anyways, everyone was pressured to be present from 9:00 to 5:00, so we
could get as much work done together. This makes sense and is fair.
However, when I had a gluten episode, I had *shit* to deal with.  And
it's really fucked up that when I had medical issues, my coworkers
talked about it behind my back, didn't ever direcly mention it to me,
didn't reach out to help me or ask me what was wrong.  But when I had
an episode and left work for an hour to take a shower and come back --
remember, I couldn't drive -- I was publicly questioned and belittled
for not being at work.

And what was I supposed to say, in front of everyone.  "I went home to
take a shower and wash the shit smell off" -- that's what I'm supposed
to say? What's fucked up though is that it should have been obvious to
everyone (from the smell) that I had some kind of digestive issue to
deal with.

It would be two years after the above episodes that I would finally
realize -- "Hey, it's the gluten."  Now that I've (mostly) ceased my
intake of gluten, these episodes have mostly stopped.  When I have
*reluctantly* mentioned these problems to people, they've suggested
gluten intolerance, so it's somewhat common knowledge to educated
people today that digestive problems involving fatty stool can be
caused by gluten intolerance.

However, the coworkers above? They ridiculed gluten intolerance and
gluten-free food! Like, it was an everyday thing they would joke
about. Impossible for me to conclusively determine whether they knew
what was causing the digestive problems I was having.  Regardless, no
one offered to help me and no one directly talked to me about it.
Instead, I ended up feeling further isolated from everyone and it was
one more thing that added to my emotional duress at the time.
Something else they joked about was how they had this giant turd they
couldn't flush.

<a name="a-toilet-exploded-on-me" />

# &#x2696; [A Toilet Exploded On Me](#a-toilet-exploded-on-me)

You'd think this was the worst that happened to me, but it's
not. Here's another instance where coworkers had a chance to help me,
but didn't.  Instead, it was another opportunity to hang me out to
dry.

So, during the time where I was having these gluten intolerance
episodes, I returned from lunch one day and within a half hour started
feeling nauseous and sick.  I went to the bathroom and one of the
toilets was undergoing maintenance and had an out-of-order sign.  So,
I naturally used the other one.  This was a particularly nasty
episode.  I wasn't sure if I'd need to leave work or not.

I finally finished and flushed the toilet.  I slowly started to get up
and then, with dread, realized that the water was overflowing very
fast. Like ridiculously fast, as if there was no water being drained,
only water entering the bowl. It was too late, all the shitty water
got all over my jeans.  Like inside my jeans.

WTF was I going to do?!  I thought I was going to have to walk all the
way home, reeking of shit.  I stayed in the bathroom for another 15
minutes, brooding and contemplating my next steps.  Finally, I lucked
out!  At one point while working there, I was homeless and I had kept
several changes of clothes in my old desk.  I had taken all those
clothes home, but I forgot about one pair of dirty jeans & underwear I
had left in a locker at the bathroom.  Better than nothing.

I gave myself a quick hobo bath with paper towels and changed into my
jeans -- my
[glow in the dark jeans](http://uncrate.com/stuff/naked-famous-glow-in-the-dark-jeans/).
I walked back into the office, looking pissed.  I was carrying my
shit-soaked clothes in my hand.  I was seriously about to cry at this
point.  I explained what happened, but very few people seemed to be
concerned.  I was 90% out the door by this time anyways.

I put my dirty clothes into the locker in our bathroom.  I went to the
gym nearby and took a shower.  At least I didn't have to go there in
my shit-drenched clothes. I returned in about an hour.

Of course, this was nobody's fault, just another random *shitty* thing
to happen to me. However, it was another missed opportunity for my
coworkers to reach out and help me.

<a name="i-couldnt-encrypt-my-harddrive" />

# &#x2696; [I Couldn't Encrypt My Harddrive](#i-couldnt-encrypt-my-harddrive)

I couldn't encrypt my harddrive without unlinking BIOS...

I had just started a new job and received my work laptop, which was a
Macbook Pro.  Our company had a strong security focus and we employed
several people with pen-testing experience, which is essentially
offensive hacking-for-hire.  There's a list of settings I configure
for a new computer and they include setting a BIOS password and
encrypting the hard drive.

One of the first things I did with my new work laptop was set a BIOS
password. I also have a very specific list of customizations for OSX
and after I made these configurations, I encrypted my harddrive.

*My laptop wouldn't boot to BIOS after the harddrive was encrypted.*
 My work laptop was a Macbook Pro, which technically has
 OpenFirmware(OFW) and not BIOS. At the time of the writing, Apple
 stored the OFW program on a special partition on the harddrive.  I'm
 not terribly familiar with the specifics, but if you'd like more info
 about OSX Rootkits, you can refer to
 [these](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kOO0BUeBiA0)
 [videos](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5BrdX7VdOr0).  And
 especially this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W21ZIaKf5HA),
 which explains OSX firmware hacks in detail.

My point is, if a BIOS was modified to run code from an arbitrary
location on a hard disk and then that hard disk is encrypted, that
location will no longer point to valid, readable code.  The BIOS would
likely crash, which is exactly what happened repeatedly.  I decrypted
the hard disk and boom! -- I could access the OpenFirmware BIOS just
fine.  Encrypted it again -- boom! -- locked out again.

It's important to note that there are a multitude of issues that could
cause the BIOS to crash after encryption.  I'm not an expert with
rootkits and it's very, very difficult to verify whether you have one.

However, it's a bit suspicious that a completely new MacbookPro out of
the box has problems that does not allow one to encrypt the hard drive
with FileVault.  When my laptop couldn't enter BIOS after encryption,
I was immediately concerned about the slight possibility of a rootkit.

However, more concerning is that I was working for a security-focused
business.  Harddrive encryption is paramount!! Without harddrive
encryption, anyone with physical access to your laptop can retrieve
all of your data in an hour or less.  All they need is a screwdriver
and a device to read a harddrive.  I mentioned to my coworkers that I
couldn't encrypt my harddrive without losing access to BIOS, but no
one expressed too much concern.

<a name="OMFG-the-bedbugs" />

# &#x2696; [OMFG the Bedbugs](#OMFG-the-bedbugs)

So, I interviewed for one position for about a month.  After I started
the interview process, I came home one day and my roommate told me we
had bedbugs.  I had never dealt with a situation like this.  I had
just moved up to Boulder and hadn't had time to make very many friends
yet.  At least, not close ones.  I had just enough money left to live
for a month or so, not enough to deal with a bedbug infestation, which
would require me to renege on my belief that all life is sacred.  And
certainly not enough money to find a new place to live.

Furthermore, my roommate and I weren't even subletting the apartment.
We had no tenant rights!!  So we couldn't file a complaint to the
apartment management.  It was a wierd situation, where I moved into my
friend's brother's apartment.  There was no furniture, but his brother
had left a fairly expensive mattress.  I was extremely grateful for
this.  But it turns out, I didn't get to use the mattress much.

I creatively minimized my time at my apartment.  I was there for two
months and the last five weeks or so, I stayed up every other night,
occasionally passing out on my desk at Fuse, the coworking office.  I
only went into my apartment to shower and take a bath.  If I slept
there, I slept outside on the balcony.  I was petrified of people
finding out about what I was going through, especially since I didn't
really have a support network of good friends willing to take a burn
to help me out.

> "Neurotoxin, Neurotoxin, Neurotoxin!"

The stress of apartment search combined with the lack of sleep made it
very difficult to excel at my new job, however much effort I put in.
I made a terrible impression during those first three weeks, even
though I got the feels from the manager on day three that I was not
going to be there for long.

At one point during the bedbug episode, I met this girl at the Yellow
Deli, which is a deli franchise run by a cult.  Yes, this is real
life.  It was 5:00 in the morning.  Maybe that should have been a red
flag, but we talked for a while and she seemed cool, so I got her
number.  I can't remember if this was before or after I started my
job.

This was on the weekend and there was a barbeque going on at Fuse, my
coworking office.  I texted her and asked her to come with me to the
BBQ.  So, she shows up in the same clothes with the same bookbag.  And
it's about that time that I realize -- wait a second -- this girl is
homeless and I just invited her to hang out with my coworking friends!

Hilarious.  Whatever, she seemed cool when I first met her and I'd
rather not toss someone out just because they're in a tough spot.  I
think the people at the party may have noticed, but I didn't want to
hurt her feelings, so I just went with it.  Plus, I like meeting all
different kinds of people and I was kinda on a "be kind to everyone"
kick.  Buddhism and whatnot.

> Pretty fly for a homeless girl.

After the party, we hung out a bit in Boulder's Central Park.  Then, I
asked her back to the apartment.  We were walking back, but about
halfway there, I told her about the bedbugs.  She freaked out.  Here's
the punchline:

> A fucking homeless girl wanted nothing to do with my bedbug ridden
> apartment!

Half of why I asked her to the apartment was to find out what she
would say.  Finally she calmed down and said she'd hang out for a
minute.  She ended up sleeping there, but was so paranoid about the
bedbugs, she slept in the bathtub.  No, I did not pull moves on the
homeless girl.

Oh, and that time my friends came out to Boulder?  The girl I had a
crush on for a few years?  Bedbugs.  They needed a place to stay and
were kinda depending on me and I couldn't help them.  It kills me to
forever be in a position where I can't give back to my friends.

<a name="homeless-for-several-weeks" />

# &#x2696; [Homeless for Several Weeks](#homeless-for-several-weeks)

It's important to note that I started my new job when I still had
three weeks left at my apartment.  It was clear to my manager and the
people around me that I needed to look for a new apartment.  They were
aware of this.  My apartment search was poorly timed with the start of
the fall semester at the local university.

#### Furthermore, **I didn't have a car** to search for an apartment.

My coworkers never offered to help me with my apartment hunt, though I
can't really hold it against them, since I didn't really ask.  It was
especially hard for me to find a place.  Everything in Boulder was
either super expensive or too far away from work.  Not owning a car
was killing me at this point.

Even worse, as soon as I started my new job, my manager instituted a
strict policy of 9:00 - 5:00 work hours.  It was really hard for me to
take off work to check out a new apartment.  When I did, it took a
ridiculously long time bc I would have to take the bus to wherever I
was going.  I was chastised at work for not being there on time and
for leaving to take care of personal issues, like doctor's visits and
apartment hunting.

And then I was chastised for not getting an apartment.  I was made to
feel like it was completely my fault that I didn't have it lined up --
even though I was under significant duress from both work and my
living situation at home.  And I was made to feel that being homeless
was not something they could help me with.  At this time, I was under
the clear impression that my days there were numbered anyways.  I was
constantly reminded that the writing was on the wall.  It was
completely heartless.

I had left all my stuff completely unsecured in the back of my friends
truck for a few days.  And he couldn't keep carrying it around
everywhere he went -- he didn't want to put it in his place bc of the
bedbugs.  One night, he brought the stuff to my office, where everyone
was about to leave.  As I was bringing it in, I was told there was no
way I could keep it there "for insurance reasons." I kind of
understand the reasoning behind this, but at the same time **HELP A
BROTHA OUT!!** Seriously?

I was told I needed to find a storage unit to leave my stuff, even
though I owned no furniture and I could literally carry all my
posessions in Boulder -- barely.  I was told to get a hotel, which I
did, even though at $120/night that was draining all the funds I would
have saved up for a security deposit.

I even got kicked out of my hotel! One morning, I was told I couldn't
stay there any longer. So I had to gather up all my stuff and carry it
to the office.  I tried to bring it in again and was harshly told that
I couldn't.  So, I literally had to leave everything I owned in the
parking garage of my office building!  At one point, I was sleeping on
the side of a mountain.

Here's that recurring theme: no one offered to help me!  And I was
made to feel that it was all my fault and that I was completely
pathetic for not getting all this straightened out.  How could I
possibly work at a startup when I couldn't even sort out my personal
life? Instead of viewing me as a new coworker who needed help and
instead of viewing it as an opportunity to show me what the company
would do to help it's employees, a certain segment of the employees
instead viewed it as an opportunity to indirectly attack me and
continue whittling away at my reputation.

Now, remember, all of this overhead in my personal life required time.
All of my time every day was alotted to being at work, searching for
an apartment, moving my stuff from one place to another, retrieving
clean clothes from wherever my stuff was located, etc.  I can't think
of one time a coworker at this job helped me with my personal life.  I
realize I should have sorted this out myself, but I was so stressed
with work early on that I simply did not have time.  It was a
situation I created myself.  Nevertheless, anyone except opportunistic
sociopathic assholes would help someone out in this situation, instead
of using these situations against them.

<a name="caught-in-merger-politics" />

# &#x2696; [Caught in Merger Politics](#caught-in-merger-politics)

I got a job for one company I worked at who had just completed a
merger of two very small companies.  Both companies had less than 6
employees.  I had never been through a merger before.  If I had
thought about it long enough, I would have realized that there would
be turbulant office politics, but I didn't think about that aspect
much.  At this point in my career, I was tired of office politicians
who manipulate appearances of the people around them for gain.

I also didn't realize that with a merger of two small companies, the
usual politics of a merger would be an order of magnitude more
turbulent.  If I had known, I would have stayed far, far away.  I'll
explain an anonymized version of the situation in terms of Company A
(CA) and Company B (CB), who merged into Company C (CC).

The CEO of CA had originally approached me at a hackathon about 6
weeks before I started.  During the interview process, they explained
that they'd be merging with CB.  I said I'd be OK with that.  About a
week after I started, one employee from CA was fired.  I felt bad
because I figured I had been hired to replace him.

I am not sure of the specifics of the merger agreement.  I don't know
how each employees stock options agreements were modified, but they'd
have to updated in some way to accommodate for the merger.  Instead of
vesting stock from either CA or CB, the employees would have their
compensation agreement changed to receive stocks from CC.  Company C
should have a drastically different term sheet as a merged entity than
either CA or CB, because the proportions of ownership would be decided
by the merger.  Honestly, a merger of two startups is sketchy as hell
and I don't understand why one wouldn't just buy out the other, but
whatever.

I didn't quite see what was going on until the very end, when I saw
that everyone from CA was gone.  Basically, anyone with stock options
was systematically eliminated before they could get options from CC.
Everyone from CA, except one person, was eliminated within 10 weeks.
Personally, I would have only received stock if I stayed there for
three months.  There were 5 employees from CB and they clung together.

Regardless of whether one side was motivated by financial interest to
push people out, the politics were terrible.  The end.

<a name="scientologists-audited-me-at-work" />

# &#x2696; [Scientologists 'Audited' Me at Work](#scientologists-audited-me-at-work)

At one software development position I held, I worked at a small
company with less than ten employees.  One day, around lunchtime, one
of the employees asked me if I knew what an "e-meter" was.

> "An E-Reader? You mean like a Kindle?" - My actual words.

No, they weren't talking about an e-reader.  They were talking about a
scientology e-meter, the device used to audit members.  Later on that
day, two of the employees approached me and asked if I had anything to
drink in the past 24 hours.  "What? No, I don't drink very often," I
replied.  They then asked me if I wanted to try out an e-meter and
showed it to me.  I was like, "Sure, I guess."

Two people objected.  First, my manager at the time, who I would
describe as "literally the worst human being I have ever encountered."
He was like "No!", but then said "Well, he's already seen it."  I get
the feeling that he didn't want me to know about their connection to
scientology.  The other person who objected was the only software
developer who I trusted there.  He tried to warn me, but I wouldn't
listen.  I was intrigued and besides, I had met a few people several
months before who audited me, though I didn't know it was called an
e-meter.

They started by asking me a few easy questions.  And then proceeded to
ask me shocking work-related questions.  I was a bit pissed off.  I
quickly ended the interaction.  So bizarre.  These e-meter devices
cost several thousand dollars, how could you possibly have one if
you're not a well-invested member?  And it's basically a crude lie
detector.  Do I need to mention how inappropriate it would be to see
one of these used at work?!

**It stuck with me for a while, *but because I couldn't connect it to
  anything else at the time*, I just assumed that scientologists were
  assholes.** I just assumed that if you disagreed with these people,
  they apparently ganged up on you and loaded you down with the exact
  psychological issues they claimed their "religion" freed you from.
  When I left this job, I was ** *BROKEN*.**

> "Two months in a dungeon."  Haha very funny guys...

These two or three guys completely ganged up on me at work.  It was a
very small company with about ten employees.  There was ABSOLUTELY
ZERO CHANCE I WOULD SURVIVE.  There was nothing I could have done to
keep my job there.  I was never meant to succeed.  "Two months in a
dungeon" was how they phrased it, offhandedly.  They constantly
insinuated knowledge of very private details of my life.  The passive
aggressive nature of it actually drove me a bit crazy.  They never
said anything directly, of course.

These were private details I had shared with very few people.  In
particular, details that I had only shared with one person I had met a
few months earlier.  Like, for example, that I experienced digestive
episodes as a result of a food allergy I could not identify.  This
person suggested it could be gluten intolerance, but I didn't believe
them at the time.

This person had also approached me about scientology and was very
persistant about converting me, though I doubt she realized how the
details that I divulged would be used against me.  Oh, and I divulged
*everything*.  One specific question she asked was "What's the worst
thing you've ever done in your life," to which I had three
answers... She also asked if I knew what a "Black PR" package was.

I had no idea what I was getting myself into.  It wouldn't really piss
me off that much to have this knowledge used against me in my personal
affairs.  It'd suck, but I've been dealing with that my entire life --
knowledge of drug use being used against me, for example.  It's just
that I ended up in a professional setting where my life was completely
*RUINED* in a very emotionally traumatic way that has stuck with me
for years.  Oh, and before you claim I'm paranoid, my coworkers at
this job also once asked me whether or not I knew this girl by name,
whom I had forgotten at that time.

### [Reverse Auditing](http://www.forum.exscn.net/showthread.php?8302-Reverse-auditing-how-does-it-work)

So.  My opinion of scientology?  How high do you think that is?  If I
wrote a Yelp review, what would I say?  How does their belief system
mesh with my values?  Their ethics?  Do you think there's anything in
the world you could offer me to become scientologist?  Even if you
offered me a billion dollars, what would my answer be?  Even if you
could offer me my soulmate, the most beautiful, intelligent girl I've
ever met, coupled with the most amazing story of how we met and the
most impossible, fantastic things -- why should I have anything to do
with these people?

## Up Next

The amazing story of how I roomed with a schizophrenic from
*Clearwater, FL* for two days in Colorado in early November 2013.  I
had met this guy because he worked in my office building months
earlier, along with the scientologists in the story above.  He had
recently been released from a mental health facility.  I nearly had my
skull bashed in during a psychotic episode, where he drew cryptic
messages all over the walls as he lectured me.

Here's a video of the aftermath, the day after I got help from two
complete strangers and managed to call the police.  And no, there were
no drugs consumed during this experience.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Lim6F4XiLvM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
