---
title: "Defense Against The Dark Arts: Why SO Dark?"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "sociology psychology bullying gangstalking gaslighting torture warcrimes"
categories: blog
headline: "A justification of the master class the HomeSec wants purged cyberspace."
excerpt: "
"
---

### Occult Psychology Repackaged as Neuro-Linguistic Programming

It's a particularly fitting name as many of the techniques these
people use are straight from esoteric & occult teachings, which is one
reason people think they're hounded by NWO or Illuminati or Free
Masons. It's not. It's just your friendly neighborhood franchised
Guantanamo. You might as well call them Mickey G's.

Some of their tactics DO have a connection to the MK Ultra project. A
loose connection, but it's there. Most of the MKUltra methods are
purely psychological and chemical. And expensive and leave
intelligence organizations vulnerable. AND THEY ARE SO FUCKING
ILLEGAL. But, dig yourself a hole too deep and they will not hesitate
to turn you into a manakin.  Seriously watch that shit. If anyone but
me went through what I did.... it would not be pretty. Understanding
how much planning when into my own ordeal, I question how I am alive
every single day. And that doesn't help when these bastards put me
through these "mock executions" where they try to make you paranoid
about being tried for treason or being hunted by the CIA and shit.

### It Is Not A Fair Fight

They have dirty tricks. They have billions in funding. They are not
accountable to anyone. They will threaten those you love with Mafia
tactics, but without fear of reprisal BECAUSE THEY ARE THE
GOVERNMENT. Specifically, they will frame you with drugs, child porn,
rape, false terrorism charges and *you can not possibly anticipate
what you will be hit with*. I have been threatened with three of the
above, including intimation of a framed terrorism scenario.

# What's Their Mission?

What's their mission? The more important question is: are these people
even aware of it? Probably not, the severity of psychological torture
if orchestrated by a government is a war crime and the United States
government wants to minimize vulnerable surface area by maintaining at
least two degrees of seperation from those in the field...

### They'd Rather Have Another Example Than Another Recruit

Again, what's their mission? Is it to stop terrorism? Obstensibly,
yes, but ... NO NOT AT ALL! It's to feed the beast with the very same
patriots who dared stand up for what they learned about America in
High School.  That's right, they want to make examples of people. They
want to create a list of people they can psychologically manipulate.
They will get access to your HIPAA records and they've probably
datamined that shit to identify vulnerable victims.

You have no privacy. You will have no money. You will have no rights.
You will have no idea it's happening to you for years. They will turn
your family against you. They did it to mine, easily. Like fucking
cake. Like a knife through butter. My family is enthusiastic about
it. They enjoy putting me in duplicitous situations and egging on the
gaslighting. There is not a day that goes by that I do not wonder how
they did this to my family, who once cared so much for me.

### They'll Abuse SIGINT/HUMINT

#### Then Try To Convince You They Are Psychic

They will use SIGINT, social media and illegally obtained data from
your phone against you. They will use HUMINT to collect minor bits and
pieces of information. They'll use SIGINT/HUMINT mules to gather info.
They will determine your behavior and deconstruct your psychology, as
well as those around you. Every man has a price and every man has
thumbscrews. So, they'll obtain a list vices to influence you. They'll
recruit indirect "actors" to run you through Street Theater scenes,
just to get compelling quotes & soundbytes.

### Encouraged Adoption of Negative Mental Health Patterns

They will encourage you to adopt poor psychological and sociological
habits, like talking to yourself. You'll unknowingly be marked with
signs and indoctrinated with behaviors that trigger conditioned
behavior from others.They will also tap the mic on your computer or
phone and translate it to text to discover the best ways to nudge you
subtly by learning your fears, desires, etc. They will employ
unwitting intelligence agents (spooks) coordinated by liaison officers
(handlers) to invade your life. They will try to recruit you.

### Mission: Isolate, Gag, Coerce, Entice, Program, *Pay It Forward*

They collaborate with DHS and IC under the guise of cover
organizations as cover to make payment. Obstensibly, their mission is
to assess, study, manipulate and thwart political threats, including
facebook whistleblowers. Don't think too hard about what you read and
whatever you do, don't tweet about it .... **just kidding, definitely
make as much noise as possible**, otherwise you'll find yourself alone
with no one to help or in the care of a bogus psychiatrist or suicided
or framed. And you'll have absolutely not a single person that will
care to listen to you. And ironically, these people represent the
single greatest threat to United States national security.

### Intensive Monitoring/Manipulation Via A "Job"

They'll contain you with a bogus opportunity while they do it. And
even money! This will keep you trapped in a situation which is very
easy to trigger Stockholm Syndrome, but make no mistake, YOU ARE A
PRISONER. Depending on the severity of your situation, which is not as
bad as mine, if you run or go off the radar, you are at way more
risk. They will find you. And if no one knows where you are, that's
when it's best to strike.

# What is Their Endgame?

They have several options for an engame when interacting with various
individuals. It's like a really fucked up 2016 version of Dante's
Inferno. They literally have several levels of hell they put you
through. That is what they've referred to them as.

### Entice or Coerce for Recruitment

Most attractive for them would be to compel you be recruited by
collecting information for blackmail like the goddamn mafia. They'll
drain opportunities around you, like sex or money or influence, and
then they'll offer you something they think you'll find irresistable.

### Disable Without Dispensing Free Training In Sociopathic Psychological Torture

They strongly prefer to keep their dirty tricks close to their chest,
so they'll dispense their version of Hell by slowly increasing the
strength of their psychotic carney tricks.  This is why wanted so
badly to compel me to delete this and other blogs from the internet.
However, you'll find most of these dirty tricks in **48 Laws of
Power**.

### Medical Problems

Remember, in violation of HIPAA, they are illegally accessing the
physical and mental health records of people and intensively
noting/coordinating their interactions with those people. If you truly
are one of these people in a deeper level of Hell be wary of the
doctors you are seeing.

...

### Suicided

This one happens all the time. Don't make the wrong crazy statements
online. If you lay the ... uhhh.. groundwork to make it appear like
you might be a suicidal individual, then you might very well suffer a
mysterious drug overdose, like the one in "Ides of March." They have
drugs that don't leave a trace. Trust me. They also have access to
HIPAA records (did I say that already?) and they know how to trigger
subtle side effects that no doctor or toxicologist will think
of. You'd be surprised what the right confluence of 2 prescribed drugs
and low levels of untraceable herbs might do. Or the right protein
added to your food.

### Suicide

Yup, they just drive you to suicide. Pretty fucking boring, amirite?
What a bummer way to go? For me, this has been much easier to avoid
now that I understand what I'm going through. I always suspected
something fishy, but I just didn't quite get it.

### A "Drone Strike"

According to IC, CIA, DHS, etc documents, the presedent and

### A Manakin, Recycled

...

In one of the worst case scenarios, you may find yourself woken up
*QUANTICO STYLE* at the center of something very big and very bad. You
may or may not be alive at that time. You may or may not be able to
speak about it. You may or may not know about it. You may not be able
to trust the state of your own mind at the time. The people around you
will absolutely be gagged. Over the course of weeks or months, you may
notice your friends, colleagues and family members hesitation on
specific subjects. They may have spoken freely before, but seem to be
terrified of specific subjects.

For most manakins, it's important to note that this individual's
psychology has to be carefully controlled, usually throughout their
entire life. Not everyone can be a manakin. You have to lack a very
specific uh... je ne sais quoi.

But, again, they have a list of individuals with induced mental health
problems. And lots of notes about their psychology. And unrestrained
access to SIGINT/HUMINT. And the people running the game here. How
high would you score their ethics, morals and empathy. Remember,
CONGRESS does not even know the details of these fucking programs. How
does all that secrecy pan out? You get too many psychopaths together
and next thing you know, every other quiet Tom, Dick and Harry ends up
being an Adam Lanza

THEY FUCKING MAKE THESE PEOPLE ... sometimes ... maybe... I
donno. Give me a budget and the exact resources these people have
access to and I'm damn sure that I could do it. If I could just
acquire a frightening level of psychopathy, an unlimited black budget,
maybe six other psychopath friends to chum around with.

If it's truly something horrendous, you might find yourself in the
center of your very own *American Ultra* movie. Ooohhh doesn't that
sound exciting?!

# More Coming Soon.

I'll be writing more about this topic soon, but I have seriously
fucking had it with these people. They have coerced my family, robbed
me of my life, my dignity, my words, any sense of belonging and
love. Shit, I'm lucky if I can ever get a hug or talk to someone who
doesn't gain trust to inflict negativity.

# War Crimes on a Political Basis

They will do and say whatever it takes to get you to shut up. They
abuse Stockholm Syndrome and act like cheerful little Stasi when they
know they mostly were in the same boat as you, at one point or
another. These people are sick and their organized behavior represents
war crimes because it's being done on a political basis in the name of
the War on Terror, except as a domestic rollout of Guantanamo. AFAIK,
this is mostly being funded secretly via the Army, using money
laundering to hide their budgets from Congress.
