---
title: "Diversity is America's Strength"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics"
headline: "Unity through Diversity"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
What happens in America with regard to ethnic tensions
is an indication of what will happen for the rest of the world.
Like I said, America is a microcosm. Our diversity here symbolically
reflects the diversity everywhere else. If these problems boil over
and promote instability, the same thing will happen the world over. So
we seriously need to get our shit together and figure this out. As
individuals, we have to be willing to turn the other cheek; to reach
out; to seek understanding. If we do not do that here, now, it's an
incredibly bad omen for the world in 2050."
---

Our diversity is a strength, as long as it unifies us. It's a major
strength. In fact, it is that "thing" that makes America different
from anywhere else in the world. If America was a product, that is how
I would market it. In fact, that's exactly what we did at the
turn of the 20th century.

<a name="unity-through-diversity" />

### [Unity Through Diversity](#unity-through-diversity)

#### **&#x2200; &#x27FA;** [Greater Range of Ideas](#greater-range-of-ideas)

#### **&#x2200; &#x27FA;** [Ethnic Tension Persists for Generations](#ethnic-tension-persists-for-generations)

#### **&#x2200; &#x27FA;** [Diversity is a Strength](#diversity-is-a-strength)

#### **&#x2200; &#x27FA;** [A Microcosm for Diversity in the World](#a-microcosm-for-diversity-in-the-world)

### [Where Do We Go from Here?](#where-do-we-go-from-here)

#### **&#x2665; &#x21A6; &#x262E;** [Respond to Intolerance with Tolerance](#respond-to-intolerance-with-tolerance)

#### **&#x2665; &#x21A6; &#x262E;** [Speak Through Action](#speak-through-action)

#### **&#x2665; &#x21A6; &#x262E;** [Respond to Intolerance with Tolerance](#respond-to-intolerance-with-tolerance)

#### **&#x2665; &#x21A6; &#x262E;** [Truth and Loving Our Enemy](#truth-and-loving-our-enemy)

### No One Gets Left Behind, So We're Stronger Together

![Unity Through Diversity](/img/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength/diversity-all-hands.jpg)

<a name="greater-range-of-ideas" />

## [Greater Range of Ideas](#greater-range-of-ideas) &#x0E5B;

A diverse culture has a greater range of ideas to draw from. A diverse
culture can't be easily subverted by misinformation because our
response to events is less predictable and any such disruptive foreign
policy strategy would need to account for a greater range of groups
and ideas. Having a larger set of cultural elements also provides us
with greater flexibility.

<a name="ethnic-tension-persists-for-generations" />

## [Ethnic Tension Persists for Generations](#ethnic-tension-persists-for-generations) &#x0E5B;

When foreign or internal powers seek to divide us along ethnic
boundaries, it weakens us, it causes pain, it stifles our progress on
other issues, and it leaves lasting scars. When problems erupt along
ethnic boundaries and things get bad enough, we could be dealing with
the consequences of those problems for two generations. That kind of
scar tissue is sensitive and can be triggered later on. We need a
dialogue on racial and ethnic issues, if we ever want them to improve,
but people on the extremes of any "side" need to calm down.

<a name="diversity-is-a-strength" />

## [Diversity is a Strength](#diversity-is-a-strength) &#x0E5B;

Diversity is a strength as long as we are united through it. If we
allow it to be used against us, if we act on it ourselves and
exacerbate serious issues, then we are squandering the energy and
political capital we could invest in other changes in our society. We
have to address these concerns, so that they become our strength.

Nowhere else in the entire world can you find more diversity than
America! That is our strength! It is our brand. If there was
nationalism in America, what would it look like? Nationalism is fueled
by pride in one's nation. We should be proud of our diversity and
determined to make it a strength. In America, nationalism shouldn't
divide us along ethnic boundaries. It should unite us.

<a name="a-microcosm-for-diversity-in-the-world" />

## [A Microcosm for Diversity in the World](#a-microcosm-for-diversity-in-the-world) &#x0E5B;

America is a microcosm of the world. Our world is lucky to have such a
great nation, a superpower, where so many cultures flourish
together. Yes, there is a ton of progress to be made, but
overpopulation threatens the world like never before. Resources are
dwindling. These are conditions that spark war, except that tension is
growing on a global scale.

#### If Diversity Makes America Stronger, Then It Can Make the World Stronger

In a way, America has been cursed by a legacy of centuries-old
genocide and slavery. But in wierd a way, we are blessed by a
population representing a patchwork of ethnicities in the 21st century
world. Here we are in the most powerful country and we will be forced
to resolve these differences. We have to. Think about what it'd be
like to live in a world where the handful of most powerful nations did
not have much ethnic diversity. How would an overpopulation conflict
across the globe play out then?

> What happens in America with regard to ethnic tensions
> is an indication of what will happen for the rest of the world.

Like I said, America is a microcosm. Our diversity here symbolically
reflects the diversity everywhere else. If these problems boil over
and promote instability, the same thing will happen the world over. So
we seriously need to get our shit together and figure this out. As
individuals, we have to be willing to turn the other cheek; to reach
out; to seek understanding. If we do not do that here, now, it's an
incredibly bad omen for the world in 2050.

<a name="where-do-we-go-from-here" />

# [Where Do We Go from Here?](#where-do-we-go-from-here) &#x0E5B;

> The following is advice for any social movement. And just to
> clarify, none of this article should be taken as a critique on Black
> Lives Matter protestors.

Tolerance? Discrimination? How do we improve these? How can someone
improve a social issue they can't talk about?  Yes, we should be more
tolerant! Absolutely! But we also have to be tolerant of people who
are intolerant. That doesn't mean we should like it, no!

If you completely cut someone off who's been labelled as racist, what
does that do? Has anyone in this country actually watched American
History X? How does the character Lamont breakthrough to the neonazi
character? Does he do it by ignoring that character? Avoiding him?
Isolating him? No! Just the opposite.

<a name="respond-to-intolerance-with-tolerance" />

### **&#x262E;** [Respond to Intolerance with Tolerance](#respond-to-intolerance-with-tolerance) **&#x262E;**

If we want to resolve ethnic tensions in America, we need
communication and we can't immediately respond to a differing
viewpoint by escalating tension.

We have to respond to intolerance itself with tolerance! That doesn't
mean we should be passively tolerant of intolerance, but gauge your
intentions when you react to something.

<a name="speak-through-action" />

### **&#x262E;** [Speak Through Action](#speak-through-action) **&#x262E;**

Watch how people react to those who disagree with them. I admire
people like Gandhi and Dr. King because they dealt with a lot of
outright injustice and they did it with grace! They knew their actions
spoke more powerfully than any words they could ever utter. They knew
they were surrounded by people who wanted change and people who were
vitriously opposed to it.

<a name="truth-as-a-strategy" />

### **&#x262E;** [Truth as a Strategy](#truth-as-a-strategy) **&#x262E;**

But, how did they respond? They allowed their actions to speak for
themselves and they allowed their opponents actions to speak for their
opponents and they believed that people would see things as they
were. That is it! Their strategy was truth! Truth and nothing more!

<a name="truth-and-loving-our-enemy" />

### **&#x262E;** [Truth and Loving Our Enemy](#truth-and-loving-our-enemy) **&#x262E;**

That is, except perhaps loving their enemy enough to grant him or her
forgiveness for their ignorance. And they suffered for this. They
suffered through the ignorance and intolerance, but maintained the
grace to forgive their enemies, right through the midst of it all.
It's not easy to maintain your inner peace in the middle of some grave
injustice.

### *An Eye for an Eye Makes the Whole World Go Blind!*

# In Conclusion

There are too many people on all sides with insensitive and/or flat
out wrong viewpoints. Some of my own viewpoints could be insensitive.
I'm sorry if that's the case. I really try to keep them to myself. The
only reason I wrote this article is because I feel it would have a
positive effect in most contexts with regard to the current tension. I
absolutely do not condone or intend to encourage any kind of racist or
intolerant bullshit. We need to come together in this country.

The following is a account of being wrongfully labelled as racist in
my personal life and how it made me feel.

## I was Wrongfully Labelled as Racist

From 2009 through 2013, I felt unfairly labeled as a racist,
occassionally. I don't know how it happened. For a variety of reasons,
I suppose, none of which had anything to do with me making overtly
racially-oriented statements. Moreso, I didn't feel any negativity
towards any ethnic group, even when I felt I was unfairly
labeled. First it happened to a minor degree in jamskating.

#### Racist Until Proven Otherwise...

Then, it happened at each job I had, where I would have to strongly
assert myself to avoid being labelled as racist. Each time I got a new
job, I would get the feeling that someone had labelled me that
way. Nothing major, nothing overt. Each time, within about a week of
starting. It was just something I became accustomed to shaking off. I
figured it was because I had a southern accent because I was not
sending any of those signals. I had long since learned my lesson:
leave my politics at home, so it wasnt that. They could have
identified those from my Facebook, though.

> If you label someone as racist because they have a southern accent,
> doesn't that make you prejudiced?

#### Because It Was Convenient...

I got the feeling I was labelled because it was politically
convenient. I mean political in the sense that labelling me allowed
someone to gain advantage by discrediting me amoung the people in some
group: jamskaters or coworkers. But, to some degree, I mean political
in the traditional sense, in that I saw it used as a tool to restrain
& isolate other people, mostly Libertarians. I think it was used on me
in that way. To some people, Libertarian was a euphemism for
racist. There is one specific situation I recall, where I made
well-meaning, but insensitive comments to an individual.

#### But Did They Seek To Improve the Situation?

But in the workplace or public life, I could never respond to it
because it was always an insinuation. That kind of stuff is cowardly,
if you ask me. If you have a problem with someone *and you want it to
improve*, then you'll reach out to them and talk to them. If you want
an excuse to exacerbate problems, then labelling someone as racist is
perfect because that person is not likely to be able to respond. It's
not exactly a subject you would bring up. And *think about it*, if the
person actually cared about the sensitivity of these issues, would
they carelessly use it as a tool? To gain minor political advantage in
some group dynamic? That completely disregards the sensitivity of this
subject!

#### Passive Aggressive Behavior Avoids Opportunity for Reaction by Design

If you find yourself labelled in this way, any statement that you make
feels stilted. No one's going to ask you directly or confirm. The best
you'll get is people *rorshocking* you, which is like bouncing trigger
words off you and gauging your response. It's about as scientific as a
fucking fortune teller. And if this person is malicious and trying to
mislead people, selfishly exploiting a sensitive subject to gain
personal advantage, do you think they're going to give you the benefit
of the doubt? No! It's a tool to discredit you by playing to an issue
that an *amoral baby-eating sociopath* sees as being effective in a
disgusting, utilitarian manner.

#### A Self-Perpetuating Feedback Loop of Negativity

When people are A/B testing your reactions like this, don't you think
that has the propensity to go horribly wrong? In fact, wouldn't it
create a negative, corrosive feedback loop, driving people to
experience negativity by being labelled as racist when they are not?
Or when direct, straightforward statements to that person would have
indicated to them that they should shut the fuck up because they don't
know what they are talking about and race is a sensitive subject that
shouldn't be approached without care?

#### This Person or Persons Knew What They Were Doing

If someone understood people well enough to know how use passive
aggressive behavior to get away with falsely labelling someone like
that ... then, shouldn't they have the foresight to understand how
that wrongfully directed negativity might contribute to someone's
personal feelings on race? In other words, negativity begets
negativity. Someone well versed in group dynamics, sociology and
psychology should be able to see that's a possible consequence of
their actions, right? ... But they don't care?  They don't care that
the end result of their action contributes to the opposite of their
ostensible goal of acting against racism? What would happen if the
person you did that to wasn't psychologically mature enough to handle
it? Did this person bother to assess that? ...

The only thing I'm trying to say here is that this happened to me
*several times* from 2009 through 2013. As in, there was strong,
protracted action in my social group stemming from one person, who
labelled me behind my back. And then I would spend months wiping muck
off my face, simply because someone wanted an effective means of
preventing me from gaining influence. I moved several times to escape
the suffocation of whatever crap I've been going through the past
decade, of which this is a small part. In fact, I wanted to move to
make my situation visible to more people... I'm lucky that I haven't
been thrown in an asylum at this point, not because I have
psychological issues. *Because I have socialogical issues.*

And guess what? Each time, the person who labeled me was a white
guy. With strong left-leaning tendencies. A fucking white guy stirring
up some serious muck. I am so angry even writing about this right
now. This is not to say that we can't stand up for each other and
correct others who make racist statements...

#### What *Exactly* Are Your Intentions?

You want these issues to get better, right? Because if someone uses an
issue like this, oh my !@#$!^@ &$#@! that is the most blindingly
ignorant bullshit I can imagine. It's one thing to have a
misunderstanding. It's another thing to willfully burden someone with
a false label to discredit them, while being completely capable of
understanding that the indirect consequences of doing so might
actually contribute to exacerbating a problem you claim to care so
much about. And to top it off, this requires a few weeks of minor
actions and talking behind my back and not a single instance of one of
these people directly talking to me about it. So I think we can see,
if someone did do this, they didn't care about the issue, they cared
about discrediting me! That's bullshit!

### Why Am I Blogging About This?

First off, let me tell you that I am not an expert on the subject of
race relations or diversity. In fact, I've been thinking of taking a
Coursera classlike that, mostly so I don't misstep and hurt someone's
feelings when I mean well. I know what feels right to me, but I can't
know how exactly it feels to be in other people's shoes.  Taking a
class like that would benefit myself greatly.

Usually, I just keep my mouth shut. That usually works pretty good,
unless you're the quiet guy who finds himself targeted to be
discredited and only God knows why.

In December 2014, I interviewed with Instacart for a Rails job and
several "shenanigans" happened. After the interview, I attended a
Rails meetup, right down the street from their office. If I paid
$2000+ to interview someone and I was aware they were attending an
event down the street, I might ask another employee to attend
anonymously. I met one of the guys who ran the ABC show *Startup U*,
who approached me and asked me questions. So, someone else knew I was
there ... maybe.

But there was someone who started one of those conversations that
took an abrupt accusatory tone and involved racial topics. Basically,
there was a Japanese guy there, who had a nametag with a traditional
Japanese first and last name. So I approached him and asked him if he
was Japanese. I'm interested in the language and culture. We actually
emailed back and forth afterwards.

After that conversation, this other guy (not related to Instacart or
ABC or whatever) starts that indirect accusatory conversation, of
which I am not a part. So I joined in. I knew what he was trying to
say, but I wanted to make sure I knew that kids name and I still do. I
wanted to make sure I killed him with kindness. I can't stand that
crap. I'm in fucking Silicon Valley for a fucking interview you
twerp. Right down the fucking street from a company who's stock
options would have netted me TWO MILLION DOLLARS, you fuck.

Have you thought about picking on someone who doesn't have aspergers?
Or maybe just ... I donno .. giving someone a chance to explain
themselves?  Ever think about that? Oh! But No! That's not what it's
about. It's about discrediting me. So why the fuck would they give me
a chance to set the record straight?

#### Is This Loud and Clear?

But why would I blog about it? Because I want people to hear me say
this. I want to make it *loud and clear*. I wouldn't care if everyone
on the goddamn planet could hear me. In fact, I would want them to. I
would want every single fucking person on the planet to examine my
life under a goddamn microscope and verify for themselves: *DAVID
CONNER IS NOT A FUCKING RACIST YOU FUCKING ASSHOLES.*

#### I'm So Tired of Being Defined by Others, Simply because I'm Quiet and They Have a Megaphone

I am not claiming that I am a perfect person. Far from it, but I would
be willing to be judged after having my entire life sifted through.
With regard to race, I have made a few poor statements, not driven by
negativity, but by carelessness. However, I have seriously had it with
this shit where I'm falsely labelled, yet never given the chance to
respond. There's no one left to stand up for me and I am tired of
being held up as an example of what is truly my antithesis.  And it's
not just being labelled as racist. It extends to other things as well.

And it is infuriating that I find myself socially isolated, while
everyone else tells my story for me. The world doesn't really hear
what I have to say and I never actually get the chance to make a first
impression because someone has already gone ahead of me to sling the
muck before I even get the chance to say "Hi, my name is David
Conner." If I do move to somewhere, by myself, where no one knows me
-- as I have done two or three times -- and I disconnect my Facebook,
it's only a matter of time before that smeared, discredited image
catches up to me. And it's not me, yet who feels the door getting
slammed in their face, time after time?

I'm tired of it because I have sacrificed a lot of opportunities to
maintain specific political viewpoints. Specifically, to have some
issue like that just carelessly tossed around to discredit me is
bullshit! Someone that does that, willingly, with comprehension of how
those actions would foment negativity? They need to go piss on a
powerline.

### ... So YEH! I'm fucking mad about it!
