---
title: "The OPM Fallout of Sepsis and the Neo-Bolshevik Plague in America"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "communism politics economics"
categories: blog
headline: "They out there fuckin Lady Liberty down by the harbor and everyone can hear her scream!"
excerpt: "
"
---

### What is a Bolo, Trebek!

Have you noticed the creeping darkness in our country over the past
decade? Well I did and I was one of the first. IMO, were are in the
middle of a partially aborted neo-Bolshevik revolution where a drunk
doctor addicted to cheap money has empowered the wrong people.

We were never supposed to figure this was happening until it was too
late. And so now we have to deal with this grotesque nightmare of
figurative "sepsis" ... No, it's not the kind of sepsis that somehow
gives you the persistent chlamydia from weeks of late night ragers and
promiscuous sex. Nope, this is the sepsis that turns America's own
immune system against itself. And now people are getting pissed.

People seem to be waking up to the fact that we're in something like a
cockfight. Except, one of those roosters has it's head cut off and
it's not a fair fight. Oh yeah, and international bankers are trying
to take bets on who's going to win this fight. I don't know why that
other rooster is fighting us, but I know that we're losing. Or it sure
as hell looks like we are because, to me, it's obvious that an
anti-American cancer has taken strong root in our country. It's
spreading and it's turning us against ourselves, via HomeSec and our
intelligence community. As far as I can see, someone decided to take
that totalitarian apparatus we constructed in the Bush administration
and they turned it against America. Then someone hacked the comm
protocols ... and oh yeh, THEY HAVE A FUCKING LIST OF AGENTS AND
DEFENSE INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES.

Meanwhile, it's pushing many policies which are going to wreck the
American economy, leaving the chips of the global economy in the hands
of whoever is driving this cockfight. That's the calling card of
Bolshevik politics: pursue policies with duplicitous arguments that
appeal to the poor in the *short-term* by siphoning wealth and
influence away from the rich and are disastrous for everyone in the
long-term.

In the end, when the dust settles, no one will have power or money and
the people who get blamed? Well, it's the Bourgeoisie of course! This
requires a total reset, where the people installed with power have
zero generations of experience under their belt. Sounds great right?
Well stuff that idea box full of your suggestions and if you're lucky
they'll use them against you, stealing the credit and retaining the
profits and using that against you too. The only thing these
neo-Bolsheviks managed to accomplish was a catastrophic economic
disaster while avoiding accountability via deceipt and duplicity.

The fallout? America loses it's wealth and loses it's influence on a
global scale, placing the power in the hands of the shitdicks that
made this happen, all while leaving the common American with the same
damn problems they had before: crippling poverty. Oh, except "it's OK"
because "now there's no classes! Everybody's poor!" YAYY! Superfun!
Every American's just as poor as the other and the rest of the world
takes turns gangraping America for a century.

That's right, they out there fuckin' Lady Libery down by the harbor
and everyone in Manhattan can hear that bitch screaming, but because
she's got a bag on her head and she's asphixating from the gag in her
throat, it's OK. It's OK folks. She probably likes it. Lady Liberty's
turnin blue in the face and somebody's running a train on her and
everyone knows it, but ... it's OK?

# FOSO

### Fear of Speaking Out

To me, this is equally terrifying as it is obvious. Why? BECAUSE THIS
IS HAPPENING AND THE PEOPLE WHO SHOULD STOP IT SEEM TO BE SOILING
THEMSELVES IN FEAR OF SPEAKING OUT. FOSO. These bozos have F.O.S.O.

### how to fix it?

### Stand Up For Your Rights!

The thing part of the social contract: if everyone stands up, then the
people can't be stopped. So if we know there's a problem then we can
stop that problem. This is why there's such an emphasis on not
informing the American public: the people doing this know we couldn't
possibly tolerate it. They know they wouldn't get away with it if we
knew. The truth is, we might as well all be in Guantanamo because we
all have blacks bags on our heads. The bags are an allusion. No, not
an illusion. Well, yes, both actually. The bag just means you don't
"get it." You're in Cuba and you don't even fucking know it.

# How Could This Happen Here?

In the process of doing this and in the process of expending God knows
how much money doing it, they manage to make you believe it's your
fault, all while shielding the American Public from ever questioning
whether this could happen to someone. They will methodically and
mathematically ruin your life by constraining your social network and
turning those few social nodes you do have against you. And if those
nodes don't cooperate -- your best friends or closest family members
-- well, they'll be lucky to avoid getting on the shit list too. And
if they do actively, intentionally resist your treatment or help you
in any way, they better understand that they're going to be on that
shit list.

### So You Have Been Socially Nullified.

#### Nothing You Say Has Any Consequence

They wreck the finances, the mind and the social relations of anyone
this happens to, by the way. You can compile a list of victims by
looking at LinkedIn, Facebook, etc. and datamining that in context
with financial information. So, someone who should be making a ton of
money, but isn't and has social connections so minimalized, you'd
think they had a mental illness? *THAT GUY IS A VICTIM OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE.* Why the minimalized social network? *THEY
DON'T WON'T OTHER PEOPLE TO HEAR ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO THE PEOPLE ON
THE SHIT LIST.*

### So You Have Been Psychologically Nullified

#### Your mental capability and desire to resist has been extinguished.

Your mind has been declawed. They do this intentionally. They look at
your life in terms of Maslov's Hierarchy of needs and they ruin it
from the top down to destroy your will to fight and they ruin it from
the bottom up to destroy your capability to fight. They minimalize
your social connections and make you a major drag on the people around
you, so they hate your dependence. They deceive the few people you
might have left and coerce them to turn them against you.

They have interacted with the APA and paid a few with questionable
morals to assess you, to assist in interactions with you, to analyze
said interactions with you. They will methodically deconstruct your
mind to the point where you are lucky if you don't end up committing
suicide. They want you to think that it's your fault to. They want
everyone around you to believe that it's your fault.

And most importantly, they want to destroy your will to fight back. If
possible, they'd like to induce Stockholm Syndrome. It's not always
possible because, again, you've got that bag on your head. There are
some people who aren't willing to become best buddies with their
torturers if specific things aren't articulated in very explicit, very
certain terms. I was one of those people, who refused to sign on the
dotted line with my emotional abusers. I didn't want to extend further
control to these assholes if it meant that I was agreeing to terms I
never understood, just because they dangled something in front of my
face, while never actually intending to give it to me.

It's like trying to haggle with a fucking palm reader or fortune
teller. Really? These people want to haggle while never using
articulate language because that would expand their own vulnerability
in the situation. They will not hesitate to listen in to your
conversations illegally in order to use suggestion and indirectly
refer to key phrases. It's all so they can get what they want and
never ever deliver on what you wanted ... because they never actually
even said that shit, you idiot. It was never written down.

You just sold your soul to be reduced to a former version of yourself
while they use weaponized psychology against you so that you chase
some half-assed pipedream they deluded you into thinking you might
actually get. They won't ever deliver on something like that. Why?
Because if they did, you'd stop chasing that and it makes it harder to
control you. The goal is control. If they give you what you want,
without strings, they lose control. You can always be sure that this
party will NEVER do anything that relinquishes control. In every
situation, you can fucking bet on it. You could set your watch by it.

### So You Have Been Financially Nullified

#### You Have No Options to Defend Yourself or to Run.

Why do you think they sap the finances of anyone they subdue via
psychological torture? *BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT YOU TO RUN TO ANOTHER
COUNTRY AND FIND OUT HOW MUCH YOUR LIFE CHANGES WHEN YOU DON'T HAVVE
TO DEAL WITH THIS SHIT.* They don't want you to inform people from
other countries about what's happening. Why? Because other countries
wouldn't sit back and watch this shit happen?

### So You've Been Socially, Psychologically and Financially Ruined...

... What's left? Who the fuck knows, but if you're not out there
scoring points and gaining ground for them, you're useless. The truth
is that you never mattered.  What matters is helping them extend this
CIA MKUltra experiment that escaped the lab. They want you to wire
together and string up another puppet. That's all. It's like someone
crossed MKUltra with a Ponzi scheme and called it Guantanamo, then
they claimed it was for national security and, hell, why not call it a
religion too.

### notes on OPM

### Yup, They Got All the Bases! Every Single One of Them.

How can these Bolo's do this in the Age of the Internet? Because they
have total control of the communication infrastructure. They have
seized the means of communication. They have domination of telecom.
Any party that exerts control over telecom infrastructure has God-mode
on the internet. Assume that SSL is broken and thus HTTPS is
broken. Most sites don't even use SSL anymore. Those sites are
definitely definitely hopelessly broken. Assume that any message you
send on the internet can be blocked silently or modified persistently.

### All Your Bases Have Splinternet

It is possible to Man-in-the-Middle anything with a customized
application server. Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, anything. They can
selectively divert traffic to these containers to effectively shard
usage and maintain persistently modifications applied to the data for
specific users. If you actually are a targeted individual, the
end-points for internet access will be modified in real time, so they
can limit the application of these kinds of God-mode exploits to only
the terminals you are in front of. These are theoretical exploits by
the way, but they are possible in theory. Far from practical, but they
are possible and it scares the shit out of me.

I am a refugee because they won't let me leave. Understanding these
exploits is part of the reason why they'll never, ever let me leave
the United States. My intelligence is why they say I'm dangerous, by
the way. Not because of my intent, but because of my intellectual
capability with regard to understanding how to fucking run shit in
information warfare. And psychological warfare, too. And economic
warfare.

### Universal Blackmail

And they are blackmailing fucking everyone. Like they're the goddamn
mafia. But here's the deal with distributed and total blackmail
against your citizenry. Fucking everybody is gettin blackmailed!
Again, STAND UP FOR YOUR GODDAMN RIGHTS AND FORGIVE OTHERS OF THEIR
SINS BECAUSE THEY GETTIN BLACKMAILED JUST LIKE YOU ARE IF YOU HAVE
ANY INFLUENCE.
