---
title: "Facets of Greatness - Communication - Synoptic Epigrams"
categories: "blog facets-of-greatness"
tags: "business psychology philosophy sociology leadership"
headline: "What Can We Read Between the Lines?"
author:
name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "If you know about the long term goals and mission of this person's
organization, looking at how they posture themselves and their
organization can speak volumes about those goals.  How do they say
they say?  What are their motivations behind the structure of their
message?  How are current events and market conditions affecting their
message today as compared to the past?  What are the obvious points
they could be making, but haven't mentioned and why?  Do how they stay
on message or circle back from a risky area?  Does it seem like the
interviewer or this person veered off track and why?  What was the
outcome of seemingly off the cuff statements and questions?  Good?
Bad?"
---

# &#x2605; [Crafting a Succinct Message](#crafting-a-succinct-message)

### [Sifting for Gold](#sifting-for-gold)

### [Staying on Message](#staying-on-message)

# &#x2605; [A Wealth of Experience in Interviews](#a-wealth-of-experience-in-interviews)

### [What Can We Read Between the Lines?](#what-can-we-read-between-the-lines)

### [Read the Room](#read-the-room)

### [Let's Talk About Me](#lets-talk-about-me)

### [Why Those Questions](#why-those-questions)

# &#x2605; [Balancing Simplicity with Tactics](#balancing-simplicity-with-tactics)

### *Communication* is both the receipt and transmission of information.

It's a great example of something that seems difficult to measure and
to quantify.  Unless you're familiar with the math that drives
companies like Google, then communication is going to seem like a
liberal art.  But great people learn how to systemize everything.
It's difficult to truly excel at something without systemizing it.
And they excel at both parsing the nuggets of gold from information
received, as well as crafting their content to convey the intended
message.

<a name="crafting-a-succinct-message" />

# [Crafting a Succinct Message](#crafting-a-succinct-message)

Crafting the right message your business, brand or project requires
skill and experience.  It's a tough optimization problem.  The best
take great pains to craft a minimal message.  By minimalizing the
content, the message and its concepts are pure, simple, easily
understood and easily recalled.  You can tell just by looking at
Apple's advertisements, their user manuals, their developer
documentation, their tech support dialogues -- these guys have gone
through great pains to craft their message for simplicity and to
promote their brand's identity.  I can just tell, that Apple as a
company, from the top down, is structured differently, just by
observing the uniform style and goals of nearly 100% of their
communication.

<a name="sifting-for-gold" />

### [Sifting for Gold](#sifting-for-gold)

As the internet dominates information distribution and makes it
available to everyone, being privy to information and knowledge is no
longer the difficulty.  It is sifting through the firehose of data.
Now the informational advantage is available to those who can process
the data. Whereas acquiring information used to be the barrier to
overcome that signified opportunity, now it is the capacity for
sifting through the data to find the valuable nuggets. And so, both
identifying that valuable data and providing it through a viable
gateway for a large market will prove valuable in the social age.
Of course, providing paid access to distribute information to a market
in a targeted manner is not new.  That's basically advertising in
general.

<a name="staying-on-message" />

### [Staying on Message](#staying-on-message)

#### With Increased Informational Surface Area

The prevalence of social media represents ennumerable opportunities to
network with customers, to learn from them, to understand how they
think about your products and to observe the kinds of experiences your
products create.  But social media also presents itself as a huge
vulnerability to business strategy.  If you're not watching your
message, you could be revealing a lot of information abou that
business strategy.  You could be projecting the wrong message and
associations for your brand, confusing your customer's perception of
brand identity or unintentionally diluting your brand's value.
Branding is one of the most crucial aspects to tech products.

<a name="a-wealth-of-experience-in-interviews" />

# [A Wealth of Experience in Interviews](#a-wealth-of-experience-in-interviews)

Moving back towards the facets of great people, I enjoy watching
interviews of founders or other great leaders today.  I like watching
new and unknown founders who might not have as much experience, but I
like to do so because I see myself in their shoes.  These guys are
green.  They haven't had the PR training.  What mistakes do they make?
What do they consciously and unconsciously focus on presenting to the
audience and why?  What do they think is important about their product
or their message?  How do they react to pressure when they're on
stage?

When watching interviews of people like Steve Jobs or Elon Musk or a
ton of other influential people, it's important to pay attention to
more than just the message they want to convey.  There's a sea of
information you can glean from these videos.  You get to see how they
react with people of various stature, including those who might be
almost unknown.  Even when an audience member asks a dumb question, or
a leading question, you can learn how they respond to different
situations and a little bit about why.

> Ooohhh, yeh, you might want to watch your answer on that one, just
> sidestep and keep moving.

You'll notice that these people are smart and quick, yet usually
passive, when someone does something like asking a leading question.
They usually just don't attach to it, and I'll elaborate on that in a
later section.  Observing how someone responds to problems is vital to
measuring their character.

<a name="what-can-we-read-between-the-lines" />

### [What Can We Read Between the Lines?](#what-can-we-read-between-the-lines)

If you know about the long term goals and mission of this person's
organization, looking at how they posture themselves and their
organization can speak volumes about those goals.  How do they say
they say?  What are their motivations behind the structure of their
message?  How are current events and market conditions affecting their
message today as compared to the past?  What are the obvious points
they could be making, but haven't mentioned and why?  Do how they stay
on message or circle back from a risky area?  Does it seem like the
interviewer or this person veered off track and why?  What was the
outcome of seemingly off the cuff statements and questions?  Good?
Bad?

It's important to note that many, if not most, inferences you make
that aren't grounded in fact might be based in misinterpretation of
words & actions. So properly weighting the inferences you draw is key.

<a name="read-the-room" />

### [Read the Room](#read-the-room)

#### And Know Your Audience

It's crucial and difficult to understand how audience members are
going to perceive your words and actions.  This varies from area to
area.  Politics can be volatile and people will latch onto anything.
Business, not so much, but it can be unpredictable.  But, it's
definitely worth it to have someone else help you construct your
message here and to help you craft together content for a media
appearance.

<a name="lets-talk-about-me" />

### [Let's Talk About Me](#lets-talk-about-me)

So I also like to think about the process behind an interview or media
appearance.  How did they identify the questions being asked?  What
was the process to set up the interview?  What's the message they're
obstensibly trying to convey?  Why did they agree to this appearance?
What are both parties getting out of it?

<a name="why-those-questions" />

### [Why Those Questions](#why-those-questions)

#### And Why Those Answers?

If they have someone managing PR, how did they work to posture content
for the organization and/or it's projects for this interview?  What
would motivate them to do so?  How long ago does it seem like they
structured their content and message?  Have current events affected
their PR posturing in the week(s) leading up to the interview?  For
politicians running for election, did some article or video clip set
the tone?  How was their PR and team involved in responding to this?
Are they responding to the elephant in the room?  Is that typically
how they handle situations like that and why?

But, again and perhaps most important, when they veered off track, why
did that happen?  This might be where you pick up the most information
that wasn't intentionally conveyed.

<a name="balancing-simplicity-with-tactics" />

# [Balancing Simplicity with Tactics](#balancing-simplicity-with-tactics)

While it's critical to convey a simple message, for many
organizations, this can render elements of your business strategy more
predictable than you'd like.  In contrast, your organization needs to
keep people guessing.  The idea here is at least two-fold.  First,
people are excited with new information and this keeps your fans and
customers focused on you.  And secondly, extraneous information makes
it much harder for a competitor to completely discern elements of your
strategy.  So, if you only stick to what seems relevant, then it
becomes easier for your opponents to predict your intentions,
strategy, opportunities and other facets of your organization's
behavior.

These tactics contrast with the goal of keeping communications simple
and minimal. At best, these tactics allow your organization to remain
agile and retain surprise.  Yet, the wrong idea could backfire, if not
properly assessed or executed.  Using tactics to avoid predictability
requires that you have an intimate understanding of how your message
is perceived by various categories of customers and how it could be
perceived.

## That's It for Communication

I might write about the facet of communication again soon, but since
it overlaps so much with networking and signaling, it's difficult to
identify topics which apply only to communication. I hope to post the
content I have on signaling and networking next.
