---
title: "Facets of Greatness: Congressional Power Structures"
categories: "blog facets-of-greatness"
tags: "business psychology leadership sociology savingtheworld philosophy"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

## Washington's Tough for Outsiders

All this talk of Trump as an outsider to Washington got me thinking
about what that would be like to be all but green to Washington.

### &#x265E; [Integrating with the Washington Machine](#integrating-with-the-washington-machine)

### &#x265E; [Cooperative Game Theory](#cooperative-game-theory)

### &#x265E; [Navigating Congressional Networks](#navigating-congressional-networks)

### &#x265E; [Anticipating Changing Winds](#anticipating-changing-winds)

### &#x265E; [Politicians are Power Brokers](#politicians-are-power-brokers)

### &#x265E; [Bartering with Political Resources](#bartering-with-political-resources)

### &#x265E; [Political Resources in Congress](#political-resources-in-congress)

### &#x265E; [Prioritizing Resources](#prioritizing-resources)

And yes, Trump is an outsider. He's a very successful businessman. The
guy knows how to strategize, leverage his network and orchestrate
people to build success. And there's no doubt he's connected with a
large network of people, but Washington DC has a politically oriented
network. While Trump has strong connections in DC, it's not the same
thing as having worked in DC for decades.

#### &#x2605; How does a candidate best spend his time until the election?

#### &#x2605; How are public appearances prioritized?

#### &#x2605; How do you gear up the infrastructure for an effective campaign?

#### &#x2605; How do you make those decisions to fill cabinet positions? VP?

#### &#x2605; How should you coordinate with campaigns for congress to maximize synergy?

#### &#x2605; How do you design/extend your social network to interface with leadership in Congress?

#### &#x2605; How do you interface with the opposition in Congress and elsewhere?

#### &#x2605; What would you do to set the tone when you set foot in office and why?

#### &#x2605; How do you prioritize your agenda early on?

#### &#x2605; What should be done to prepare?

These are all challenging questions, but especially so when you need
to make new connections. However, a tabula rasa isn't so bad. You get
a fresh start, if you play your cards right.

<a name="integrating-with-the-washington-machine" />

# &#x265E; [Integrating with the Washington Machine](#integrating-with-the-washington-machine)

Political outsiders would likely face some difficulty integrating with
existing power structures in DC. Some heavily invested businesspeople
might run into conflicts of interest. They know that. You don't just
wing it in Washington.

#### Anticipate How Appearances will be Contorted

However, politics is about appearances. You'll find situations twisted
against you, just because it seems believable. It's not a good idea to
do something just because you can. Hopefully people are reasonable
about this, but it gets dirty quick. If he wins, Trump needs to assert
leadership early because of the political climate. If it were me, I'd
be looking for people to use as examples to assert leadership so other
people get the picture. I'd make it known that I want examples. And
people are going to want to test out those waters. Go ahead.

#### Minimize Surface Area for Attack

To minimize surface area for people to attack, some divestment would
be worthwhile because if you no longer have your assets & investments,
then you can't be said to be influenced by them. At least it's not so
easy. And by the way, I'm sure Trump has considered this stuff.

#### Restructure or Divest

As for your portfolio, you could restructure the assets & investments
or divest some of them entirely. If you divest and transfer ownership,
you get the liquidity and you don't have to be concerned with upkeep.

#### You Don't Have Time for That Side-Gig

General rule: politicians don't mix well with active business
ventures, which also means that you are better off to forego
opportunities while in politics. If you're a career politician, more
valuable to forego large investments. It might be easier to cash in
your chips.

You really can't be expected to run a business while obligated to the
duties of federal office. It'd be difficult to say the least. If
divestment and restructuring don't work, then your best bet is to find
someone you trust manage these investments for you. This could be
risky, but that can be minimized through strategery and trust.

An edge case, as an example of risk: if that person puts you in the
position where you can't be seen having profited by visibly correcting
this person's mistakes. they could make a series of subtly bad
management decisions, which you wouldn't have had time to see, giving
them some advantage. They could mismanage, dropping the stock price
temporarily, allowing them to attempt to skim ownership of the
company, in an opportunistic manner. Anyone who would mismanage for an
advantage? *Send 'em to the moon.*

In fact, that's a great test case to determine if you can trust
someone, period. Find a way to put the cheese right in front of
them. See what they do. You have to be able to *know* you can trust
someone or *know* that you've got the chips stacked so you're not
depending on trust to mitigate risk.

If you haven't figured this out, I'm a very, very paranoid
person. *Contents fragile once damaged.*

This is an oddly specific scenario and not likely, but I can imagine
that there would be other scenarios, difficult to foresee until you
get bit once or twice. More to the point, any problems that arise
would distract from your duties as a politician. But, if you have
significant assets, then you probably already have people you trust
who help you run the show.

#### Investing in Specific Industries Invites Problems

As much as people like to accuse politicians of scheming to get rich,
career politicians will stay away from large investments, especially
conflicts of interest. It opens you up for attacks. Investments in
some industries are riskier than others, like those which allocate
extensive resources towards lobbying.

#### Line Up Your Incentives

It really depends on the industry in which you are invested and the
role you play in the business. If you have significant assets in some
industries, this could be an advantage if you find the incentives that
motivate your actions line up with the people you support. This is a
challenge if you're heavily invested in some faceless megacorp. That's
just not relatable.

However, if you are heavily invested in real estate and especially
commercial real estate, you'll find that your incentives line up with
much of your support. While Trump has a much, much larger asset
portfolio than the average joe, he has a lot of support from the
middle class and small business owners. These people care about the
value of real estate just as much as Trump.

<a name="cooperative-game-theory" />

# &#x265E; [Cooperative Game Theory](#cooperative-game-theory)

This is the most important section in this article. Hands down, feet
up.

> **Line up your incentives *AND WIN EVERY TIME!*:** form groups and
> coalitions with people who share your incentives. You need to
> understand how to identify what drives the behavior of people and
> groups. Find people who share your motivations and goals. Or find a
> way to adapt your incentives and goals to better match that of other
> groups. *You will win every time!*

<a name="congressional-networking" />

# &#x265E; [Congressional Networking](#congressional-networking)

Between the House and the Senate, there are 435 Representatives and
100 Senators, but this isn't the only way to group these people.  As I
tend to do, I found a mathematic analogy. Higher level math is useful
because it has so many parallels with real life. In fact, to master
real life, you have to learn these tools, whether you realize it or
not. And this is a great example of learning to view your personal
networks from several perspectives.

#### Grouping Congressmen and Staff Functionally

Members of congressmen and faculty on Capitol Hill can be recomposed
into various views, including by officially defined groups like
committees and less explicit affiliations. The House & Senate can be
divided into leadership, administrators and general congressmen. You
can further organize this view via seniority, political influence or
on some other dimension. These groups can be reorganized into groups
that satisfy some functional condition.

E.G. all senators who have served 12+ years or all representatives
who've served 6+ years. There's a hierarchy of seniority based on
number of terms served and it matters when considering who's going to
assume leadership or committee roles.

#### Graphing Committees and Other Structures

It's useful to view the members that compose each committee, tying in
connections to committee staff members with their connections to staff
and other congressmen. If you're familiar with graph theory, you can
use that to model the relationships in these groups. Each edge between
nodes can have a value that indicates a stronger or weaker
relationship. It's not so important to actually draw these things out
as it is to imagine how these groups of people are tied together. If
you find the stronger edges in that graph, this should generally
indicate where the influence is. But it's a little more complicated
than defining one edge type.

![Graph Theory]

You can construct a network with each congressman's staff to identify
strong connections between offices. This would help one understand
how each office coordinates with others. And there has to be some kind
of differential, where some offices and faculty members exhibit more
influence, both on those around them and on the bigger picture.

Understanding who has influence, when they have it and why is
critical. The graphs I mentioned above aren't static, they shift
dynamically with respect to current events, issues du jour and
context. Again, it's possible to model this stuff, but that's kinda
silly. The important part is to understand how such tools can give you
insight into the system. Graph theory is used everywhere.

Perhaps several senators coordinate to handle specific planks of the
party's platform. Then, working with their staff might yield more
progress on those issues.

#### Working with Politicians

Politicians understand the kinds of games that are played and know
that sometimes things just don't work out the way you want. You might
willingly use yourself as a pawn in a risky situation to curry favor
to build influence early on. You might get gamed or burned pretty
badly. But there's no reason to lash out at people because of it. It's
not personal. It's business for these people.

Still, that means you need to be aware that this is their career. Some
people will get in and get out; others will stick around. But people
remember how you react to various situations and how you contributed
to a group's goals, particularly if there was some personal cost or
sacrifice. Or at least they should.

> They might not remember what happened, what you said or what you
> did, exactly. But they will remember how you made them feel.

<a name="navigating-congressional-networks" />

# &#x265E; [Navigating Congressional Networks](#navigating-congressional-networks)

Understanding how to recognize, navigate, assess and prioritize these
networks, structures and connections enables you to work smarter, get
more done and rise up through the ranks. As someone who's struggled
alot in social situations, it's incredibly frustrating to not
intuitively understand how these things work. If you don't have a
clear understanding of these networks or if you don't have good
information, it's very easy to expend a ton of time/energy in the
wrong place. You're basically spinning yqour wheels.

That said, it's one thing to notice how these things work and another
to be capable of pulling off a coordinated strategy leveraging players
from your party and reaching across the aisle. You have to be keenly
aware of how other people perceive the system. That includes those in
your party and in opposing parties.

# &#x265E; [Anticipating Changing Winds](#anticipating-changing-winds)

This is one of the most powerful tools at your disposal: understanding
how people's needs are going to change from today to tomorrow and from
next year to next decade. This introduces yet another dimension of
complexity to master.

If you know that someone wants something very badly today, but
probably won't want to expend the political capital on it in a month,
then it may or may not be wise to compromise with that person based on
their current needs. Or maybe so. Depends on whether they'd want a
refund, so it depends on how you sell it.

Similarly, if you need something badly today, you might not need it in
a month or a year. Or it might just become less relevant than it seems
today. So bargaining for it might be wise, to ensure that people know
you're working towards their interests. Yet, if you know that the
factors determining that need will change soon, then it could be a
waste of energy pursuing that.

Predicting and understanding is crucial. It means you aren't slogged
down by unnecessary battles and that your effort today is worth at
least as much as it is tomorrow. A corollary to this is that by
introducing issues you can force the opposing party to divide their
energy, or at least draw it towards a more limited range of their
platform ... which can help you predict how they are priortizing their
issues. These techniques really can't be understated.

Everyone wants to look like they're taking part in slaying whatever
dragon is rearing it's head that day. Is it really worth the energy?

# &#x265E; [Politicians are Power Brokers](#politicians-are-power-brokers)

Congressmen and faculty are power brokers. So are bureaucrats. And
when it comes down to it, we are all politicians on one level or
another. This pops up all the time in the business world and whenever
there's competition. A politician is someone who knows what they want
and needs to find a way to get there. So they have to abstract their
needs from their presentation of needs. In turn, there are people you
have to work with with a similar disposition: they have goals and
there's an abstraction between their actions and how they present
their actions. That's what politics is about. Politics begins to take
on interesting group dynamics as you add groups, rules and change.

It can be frustrating. I've learned a lot of hard lessons about
politics over the years in unusual places.

If politicians are power brokers, what does this imply? What is a good
politician? A proficient politician aquires and leverages advantage.
There are different ways to do this. Some are great; some are good;
some are bad. You can't forget that you're dealing with people and in
Washington, you're dealing with good people. Yes, even the politicians
on the news for being in trouble are typically good people. They
invested their lives in this. They have families. And they are
typically upstanding citizens. Everyone makes a few mistakes, even
though there really are a few bad apples out there.

But, to optimize one's own advantage within an explicitly political
system like Congress, this entails minimizing access to information
and power. You're trying to minimize available surface area for
information and power, which increases your opportunity to leverage
that information as an asset. While restricting availability of
information, you simultaneously increase its value for other players.

This is a lesson I learned from bboys. Yes, breakdancers. I used to
show off all the time. I wasn't really showing off. I was having fun
or practicing. However, in various situations, this can dilute the
entertainment value of bboying. It used to be pretty rare to see. If
it's completely common and for no reason, then it begins to lose it's
excitement and novelty. Also, it attracts attention. The people who
have experienced a lot of success in the entertainment industry don't
like that attention. Getting attention kinda what they do for work and
it can feel like work.

The point is, if you're diluting the value for yourself, that's your
own problem. If you're diluting the value a group of people, that's
another. The group dynamic takes over. If one person has lowered
barriers to access for information or power, then the value for that
resource is reduced for other players. Someone's breaking the game. I
can't stand that it works like this, but sometimes it does.

I value transparency and making knowledge freely available. I'd rather
not convolute my own actions to fit appearances and it's frustrating
to be jerked around by other players in a situation like that. They
obfuscate a simple situation by wrapping it in another game and
completely circumvent the apparent realities of the more simple
situation.

#### Individual and Group Dynamics

There are individual incentives for behavior as a kind of power
broker, but there are also group incentives at various levels So, in
some instances, leveraging an opportunity when it goes against party,
committee or group objectives can rub people the wrong way, at best.
At the same time, it's important for people to be able to break rank.
If everyone is bound to one rigid platform or another, it's to easy to
stymie progress. The point to adhering to group dynamics is to
accomplish shared goals through compromise.

#### The Dark Side of Politics

There's a "dark side" that can emerge from these rules, obviously.
There always is. I'm not going to delve too far into those
aspects... I'm basically saying that politicians have a tendency to be
politicians.

There's the potential for a politician to tailor his message to a
specific audience, where they speak out of both sides of their mouth,
so to speak. Or they can convince you to keep things to yourself or
restrain you from communicating with other people.

#### Watch How You Sell What You Sell

However, you have to watch how you sell what you sell. You want the
people you compromise with to feel like what they wanted today, next
week and next year. If people are satisfied at first and later feel
shortchanged, that will build up.

This is especially true with politics when you're trying to establish
a compromise with resources which are hard to pin a dollar amount
to. Actually, you can't pin a dollar amount to most of these: it's
unethical. And so there's no medium of exchange. Misunderstandings
like these are eased and ameliorated with communication and empathy.

<a name="#bartering-with-political-resources" />

# &#x265E; [Bartering with Political Resources](#bartering-with-political-resources)

In Congress, there are resouces that people can exchange to
compromise. Members of the same party might typically exchange some
types of the resources. Other types may be more common to be exchanged
by opposing factions.

These resources are like commodities in that the value of each type
can't be easily equated to others. Their value towards establishing a
compromise is heavily dependent on who's asking and why. Two instances
of one type may vary wildly in perceived value. An instance may vary
in value in relation to each party and group that is involved.

#### Value Derives from Appearances and Circumstance

Their value derives from appearances. It's not a personal subjective
value. That is, it doesn't matter what the thing is worth to you
personally. What matters is what it's worth to other people, although
this is true for most everything.

The value of these resources isn't really comparable. They can't
really have numeric and comparable value attached to them and they
shouldn't. Making everything too official would push us closer to
ethical issues. It's really tough to understand where that line is
drawn.

Some good rules of thumb might be: can you tell your fellow
congressmen about it? Would you tell your constituents? Would you tell
members of the opposing party?

#### Ethics

Again, I'm not sure where the line is drawn on ethics. Quid pro quo
exchange of services for money is a big no-no. Quid pro quo in general
is not such a great idea, especially if it's something that is
expected to be repeated. That sounds more like a product than a
compromise. There are technicalities, I'm sure. I don't know. I'd like
to know just because I'm curious how these kind of cases are decided.

The manner in which someone approaches you or makes an offer makes a
big difference. So does the method you use to market it to the other
party. When you enter an official verbal or contractual agreement,
this lends a bit of legal weight to the exchange. It just doesn't
sound great when a congressman says to a lobbyist: "I give you X for
Y."

And so the groups that are compromising also make a difference. If one
congressman made the a similar offer to another congressman, that
doesn't sound so bad. Although some agreements need to be made on a
quid pro quo basis, but some situations, groups or resource types
could spell trouble.

Honestly, the thought of taking stock of these "resources" as a
commodity is a bit upsetting to me. They are tools to push for the
change you want to see, though. Gauging your inventory to understand
what you have at your disposal to trade up and gain ground.

#### Bartering with Political Resources

There's really no well-defined value for many of these resources, so
it's like a barter system for various commodities.

Or so I assume. I only watch C-SPAN when it's exciting. Usually for
the season premieres. Oh and their epic miniseries. You know, like the
new Marvel crossover where congressmen are secretly superheros who
fight crime, but they can't because they're stuck in a committee
hearing about what to do with all the remaining payphones.

If they did that, there wouldn't be any more payphones to use to
change into their alter-ego super hero costumes, so they can skip
committee hearings to fly out to the Fortress of Solitude and kick it
in Superman's sweet new crib ... I mean, fight crime. They couldn't
fight crime. So nope. They're stuck in a committee deadlock. They
diverted donations and propped up a SuperPAC to save all the
payphones.

Jesus, what would you do? You already know if you show up to that
committee hearing once, the anti-payphone cabal is going to force a
vote ... or you could kick it with Superman in freaking
Antartica.

Anyways, bartering for this or anything else requires that you be
creative and flexible in finding ways to offer value to others. Like
the way you snuck that amendment onto the bill to send the Queen a
birthday card. You know, the amendment where your UK compatriots
agreed to send over those giant Tardis phone booths in exchange for an
official apology on Austin Powers. Those things are roomy! Plenty of
space to change real quick to fly out to the Fortress for beerpong
with Superman. The anti-payphone cabal? They're not gonna see it
coming. Suckers. They're negotiating for nothing! Fuck 'em. Plus those
Tardis things have time travel! You and superman can finally wrestle
some velociraptors and screw with cavemen. It's gonnnna be sooo
awesome!

So yeh. Totally listen to me. I have tons of experience
here. Seriously though, rookies on Capital Hill need to work harder to
obtain resources, which to some degree, they're expected to contribute
towards party goals.

#### Limited Resources

Some resources are fixed in one way or another, particularly with
respect to leadership roles. There is only one Speaker of the House &
Minority Whip; one Majority Leader & one Minority Leader. And you
can't exactly eagerly expect this to fall in your lap. First of all,
there are going to be dozens of congressmen ahead of you. Secondly, if
you're salivating at the thought of a leadership role, that could lead
to some negative intra-party politics.

Looking at the congressmen on or just above your seniority, and doing
a bit of political calculus, you could imagine that some of you might
occupy or compete for those roles someday. If you're both good
politicians, then you'll both know it too, even if it's 5 or 10 years
out. Intra-party competition is a great, in moderation.

Gauging upcoming interchange in committee leadership roles or the
opposing party is far more useful political calculus, with a similar 5
to 10 year timescale. You get to determine people on the opposing team
that you should remain ingratiated to ... lulz. Don't piss off those
guys because in a few years, you're going to need to get some
legislation through a committee and you want that wheel to stay
greased. Ideally, you wouldn't worry about such things because ...

![Zima Guy from SNL]

<a name="political-resources-in-congress" />

# &#x265E; [Political Resources in Congress](#political-resources-in-congress)

#### Floor Time and Agenda

There's a limited amount of time each year for the House & Senate
floor agendas. I imagine it works like an old-school RPG. Each player
starts with a set amount of gold. You get 50 gold right off the
bat. Then you gotta go adventuring and trade up from there. Slay
dragons with the other heroes of the realm and whatnot.

It seems that there are similar resources that each player starts out
with.

I could easily look this up

- rpg gold metaphor

- floor time & agenda
    - unless you have a few years under your belt and have served
      others, then i imagine this would be less available to you than
      to others
      - this increases demand for floor time and agenda influence for
        junior congressmen, meaning they have to barter for it.
  - specific times of the day/season are more valuable

#### Commitee Time & Agenda

The same notions of limited time and agenda access apply to
committees, which sometimes handle only one bill per issue per
session. They might only try to tackle medical marijuana once per
year. So, if the House Criminal Justice Committee votes that down,
that might be it. Interestingly, the House Criminal Justice Committee
is chaired by Bob Goodlatte, Roanoke's House Rep. I knew he was on it,
but I didn't realize he was the chair. That's the committee that
discusses various marijuana reforms.

In the nineties, it was really tough to get drug reform heard in any
legislative forum, state or federal. The level of debate has increased
considerably since then, but progress has been slow on this issue in
particular. It's just really hard to get representatives to get on
board with drug reform. The people making decisions in state and
federal legislatures are upstanding citizens. What upstanding citizen
is going to champion that cause? LOL. You're basically saying, "You
know what my community needs? More drugs!" Even if they support drug
reform, it's expensive in terms of political capital. Then, if it
doesn't make progress, you just wasted those resources and political
capital, which may have been better spent elsewhere. So it's been
difficult to make progress on that front.

The committee system tends to stall reforms a bit, partly to encourage
healthy debate. It's by design & I'll discuss that in my next article
on political theory:
[Understanding the Political System](/posts/2016-07-14-facets-of-greatness-understanding-the-political-system.html).

    - there is a limited time each year for the house/senate agenda
      - same applies to committees, which sometimes handle only one
        bill per issue per session.
        - obviously, if it's an important issue or one
        - this is one reason it's been so hard to get marijuana reform
          through the Criminal Justice committees.
          - AFAIK they would take one symbolic action on it per year,
            up until the last decade (maybe a little further)
          - medical was a bit easier, but progress can be stalled
            easily at the commi this is a mechanism in our
            government that is quite frustrating, but there are
            reasons for enabling that control.


#### Time/Energy


#### Opportunity and Service

- opportunity & service
    - one can leverage an opportunity or role as part of a compromise
    - or perform some service in aid to a cause, group effort,
      campaign, etc.
      - and leverage the promise of this service
      - or the value of completed service to one's own personal
        reputation
    - and likewise, it's useful to identify/estimate opportunities for
      service to use as leverage ... or as a way to gauge various
      things

#### Staff and Human Resources

- staff members (useful especially for rookie congressmen)

#### PR, Publicity & Press

- pr/publicity/press
    - some actions can be undertaken in congress to gain PR points or
      publicity on an issue.
      - I doubt this is the primary motivating factor in deciding
        whether or not to take an action, but you have to understand
        how your actions will affect your relationships with people
        around you.
        - crucial for maintaining relationships with funding sources
          and lobbyists
      - in fact, visible action is so crucial that one should review
        the nature of promises both public and private made to
        supporters, at least once every quarter or so
        - enumerating your supporters, their needs and their
          expectations helps you ensure that your giving back to those
          who are pushing you forward

#### Budget Items

- budgets (office/staff for congressman, etc. and committee staff)
    - if you hold an office, legislative, executive, judicial,
      administrative, or otherwise, then I'd imagine you'd have some
      kind of budget.
      - in many cases, it's probably not managed personally, but you
        have influence over it.
        - money <=> power

#### Personal Time

- personal time
  - one has to leverage their time efficiently, while remaining
    flexible, which becomes incredibly difficult as you gain
    influence

#### Knowledge of the System

- your understanding of the system
  - how you model the system and perceive the relationships between
    people is incredibly valuable
    - in fact, this might be one of your greatest sources of value

<a name="prioritizing-resources" />

# &#x265E; [Prioritizing Resources](#prioritizing-resources)

- understanding how to estimate, prioritize and schedule your
  available resources
  - need to be able to take stock of the tools available to you and
    how each kind differs by nature.
    - some resources are more appropriate
    - some resources are more scarce
    - a resource's value differs from you to them
      - identify this and utilize it
  - seeking mutual benefit is best.  it's win, win, win
    - you win bc you get what you want.
    - they win because they get what they want
    - and you win again because you profited in some other way in
      giving them what they wanted ... this could be shady though
  - seeking long-term mutual benefit is even better
  - remember that some relationships are meant to grow and others are
    not. help those who need it, but don't forget to help yourself

# Annual Cadence

- yearly cycle of events (executive branch)
  - white house press conference
  - NATO conference
  - etc
- there's a kind of yearly rhythm to lots of these events
  - events could be slightly out of order or missing, etc
  - but there might be some more predictable effects preceding or
    following specific events
    - e.g. slightly higher approval ratings after the standup at the
      white house press conference


# Picking a Vice President

The executive branch needs to be able to set the tone for legislative
sessions. The Vice President presides over the Senate. Past VP's have
varied with regard to how much influence they exert on the Senate's
agenda and operations. Since that person is involved with the
legislature, it would be beneficial to choose someone who has
preexisting connections with congressmen and their staffmembers.

That's not a determining factor for such a decision and would be
easily be outweighed. It should be easy to identify someone in your
staff who has many of the same connections. When you're making a
decision like that, you want to play to the party. It's an early
opportunity to work work with the rest of the party to find someone
they feel is deserving and is the right person in that regard.
Chemistry is also important. Finding the right VP would be a bit
tougher for a VP.

![Whiff of Grapeshot image]


### 

tie things up
- mention the next article
  - which describes issues in the system
  - explains why the system stagnates


### misc things to learn

- political factions in europe
  - overview of rules used
  - names of legislative bodies and leaders
  - recognize pictures of buildings, ppl &  whatnot
  - particularly UK, Germany, France, Spain ... etc
- military ranking systems for American army, marines, navy, air force
  - for (some) other countries
  - just interesting to know (briefly examined)
- names/specs of US/Russian/Chinese military equipment
