---
title: "Cosmic Disruption of Conflict Theory"
categories: blog
tags: "psychology philosophy sociology leadership economics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
This isn't a discussion of the merits and tragedies of religion. This
is a strategy about circumventing the factors precipitating conflict
in the first place. If acquisition and control over limited resources
creates the needs for conflict and the shapes/forms thereof, then what
happens as these factors themselves become scarce? What if the reasons
for war were themselves scarce?"
---

This is a solution to the problems posed by conflict theory and Karl
Marx. Human conflict is truly bourne from competition over
resources. It is sometimes driven by ideological means, but when you
dig deep enough, usually you find that ideology is reinforced and
propelled as a means of obscuring the true causes of conflict, often
incovenient. This is not to say that your chosen religion is an
invention inspired by control of humanity. Regardless, ideologies are
often used centuries after their invention as a means to unify
regional populations for better or worse.

This isn't a discussion of the merits and tragedies of religion. This
is a strategy about circumventing the factors precipitating conflict
in the first place. If acquisition and control over limited resources
creates the needs for conflict and the shapes/forms thereof, then what
happens as these factors themselves become scarce? What if the reasons
for war were themselves scarce?

As humanity externalizes their capacity for resource acquisition, we
will undergo major shifts in the driving factors that have seeded
conflict across the world from time immemorial. As the (scarcity) for
resources approaches elimination for several centuries, humanity will
find that the multifaceted basis for conflict itself will be
eliminated.  The degree to which these benefits are realized depends
on the availability of ores and minerals from the moon and
asteroids. There are some celestial bodies whence it would be
unethical to harvest resources.

No one knows truly what we can expect to find there, so humanity
should assume that the dearth of resources is transitive. At this
point, it's merely momentary in the context of humanity's
history. Further, humanity will find that in the face of technology,
the global economy will gradually revert to previous form, where
nations are moreso dependent on quantity and variety of resources and
they'll find less demand for finished and/or intermediate products
imported from other countries. Instead technology will supplant this
demand by replacing manufacturing methods. It is not so simple, but
the specific progression that global and national economies will
undergo is far from either certain or simple.

However, the lower classes will surely benefit from this transition
over the next three decades, driven by development and dissemination
of technology. The major concerns during this time will be economic
turbulence and uncertainty and if nations do not approach this period
with warranted caution and expected foresight, then changes will rivet
through existing socioeconomic institutions. Carbon taxing and the
solutions to global warming will help provide stablization and it is
for this reason that free-market and business-oriented types should
support such systems. Barring major disaster and after our
technological transformation -- around 2030 -- there will still
economic disparity, but that should begin to lessen worldwide, whereby
we can focus on unifying and expanding towards space.

As nano develops, so will our ability to develop space elevators,
whence we can exponeniate the harvest of resources for space. What
fascinates me is understanding how something as trivial as the
starting mass of a planet and therefore its gravity stratifies the
fates of intelligent life. Too much mass and not even nano is capable
of providing a reasonable escape from the fate of overpopulation,
life's common and innate enemy. Too little gravity and IMO there is
less restriction and need for common form or structure for life, of
which I'm not sure of the implications.

At this time, around 2050, when humanity has built out it's options
for efficiently harnessing the excess of resources available in
asteroids and elsewhere, we'll experience an unprecidented era of
peace. If we make it to this point. Think back sixty years to the
immediate aftermath of the Holocaust. Do you remember the devastation
of that period? That was that seventy years ago and the pain is still
with us. Six million people died. So, imagine, if you will, the
sociocultural implications of a 21st century holocaust or some variety
of disasters that eliminate all but two billion people by 2050. This
is a topic for another post, but compare that population's shared
social experience and burdened memory against the population of a
humanity in 2050 numbering 10 billion. The latter population found
ways to work together! Where would we find their energy and economic
output invested? In unity. In infrastructure. In prevention. In life
itself. What of the former population? They invested in war and
destruction. And what is more infuriating than conflict's capacity to
sow the seeds of further conflict.

So what have you, in 2050, if you find yourself amoung the former
population? War, destruction, tragedy and more of the same!
Furthermore, you now have the shared archetype of technological
disaster and ruinous war. What fosters and foments conflict more than
fear? In the context of FDR's quote, we should propagate this
horrendous vision of a bizarro future, so that our children can
leverage it as indemnity and collateral on an investment of
immeasurable return. Imagine the disposition of the former and latter
populations: which one is better prepared to handle the future after
2050? The one with the quasi-deluvian, Noahide archetype of global
disaster? Or the population who invested in life and infrastructure?

As for this proposed era of peace stemming from the economic
resolution to the origins of conflict theory itself: why should this
era of peace begin in 2050? If humanity knows that it has what it
takes to reach this point, why should we let any transient trauma
cause us to veer from the course? If we don't remain focused, we may
find ourselves in a world burdened by sociocultural trauma and bound
by hatred arisen from decades of conflict. Instead, we should allow
our positive and negative visions of the near future to fuel our
transition, so that our destiny reflects our needs and desires. Who
wants to live in the world full of strife and ruin? I want a future
worth celebrating. So humanity should move forwards together, which
means we must first center ourselves and unite the world over. There
should be nothing worth impediment to humanity's progress towards
this.

Because the political and economic strategies of entire cultures are
shaped by the monetization of resources and the distributions of
benefits whereof, then if humanity should shape its actions today upon
the certainties of the near future, it may defuse certain tragedy that
might prevent us from reaching the stars in the first place. There
aren't many people, old or young, who would disagree with that. It's
universally true that those who control the past control the future
via the present. Further, it's also true that those who envision the
future guide the present and therefore control the past. We should
motivate ourselves with both positive and negative visions of the
world, without letting ourselves forget the importance of
individuality so avoid succumbing to nihilism.
