---
title: "The Nature of God"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "There Is No Order Higher Than Truth"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "And so, this light derived from knowledge and truth can never be
destroyed. Whenever and wherever there are beings with the time,
stability and blessing of God to further the development of their
consciousness, will rediscover truth and reclaim light. Destroy it if
you are so empowered; if you so desire. These truths are self-evident
through exploration of our world and our mind. They can be suppressed
to decimation, but obliteration is simply not possible."
---

These are my own beliefs on the nature of God. I enjoy learning what I
can about all religious traditions and don’t subscribe to any one of
them. So maybe I’m not qualified to speculate here. However, I am
certain that there is something else that exists.

### There Is No Order Higher Than Truth

To me, God is without beginning or end. God represents the mystery,
the unknown, the unknowable, and creation. Through dedication and
meditation, we can tune into God to access the source of universal
knowledge and true power.

Such a light could never be subdued because truth fuels its
ardor. Obliteration cannot destroy the immaterial. This infinitely
self-referential source of truth is identical, regardless of who or
what witnesses it. Peering in further, illumination bursts outwards,
highlighting self-symmetry of silhouettes branching inwards, like an
arborous, one-sided infinite reflection. It’s omnipresent and
universal; the same truth resonates throughout space. Yet, no matter
how you package it or encapsulate it or deny it or fracture it, it
cannot be changed because it already incorporates the totality of all
possible existences. From my perspective, this undeniable, intangible,
unimaginably complex metaphysical entity is what other religions refer
to as God.

By seeking understanding of our world, our universe, we indirectly
familiarize ourselves with aspects of this entity. From the study of
philosophy and higher-order phenomena, one’s mind invariably converges
towards this entity outside time and space. However it’s approached,
as one navigates it’s myriad of infinitely complicated infinities,
more generalized tools of thought and reason become available. How one
cultivates their own connection is almost irrelevant. Cognizance of
this being empowers one to wield light against darkness and love to
conquer evil. “Let there be light.” — God’s first words in the Bible.

And so, this light derived from knowledge and truth can never be
destroyed. Whenever and wherever there are beings with the time,
stability and blessing of God to further the development of their
consciousness, they will rediscover truth and reclaim light. Try to
destroy it if you are so empowered; if you so desire. These truths are
self-evident through exploration of our world and our mind. They can
be suppressed to decimation, but obliteration is simply not possible.

Pulverizing this crystalline light with unrelenting force flares
iridescent shards outward, each a verdant propagule. Inviscating those
flecks within honey foments precipitation; in Kafkaesque amber,
phononic waves propagate outward, any astringence or obduracy
diminishing resistance instead; in basalt, waves reflect back
inward, transforming seismic tension into stupefying liquefaction
amidst vortical convolution yielding recrystallization.

The deafening zealous Gesellschaft seeks asphyxiation of light, like
halon, extinguishing your screams for justice and their echoes with
visceral lung-popping force. An illusory dream, for in their gusting
fervor to align all to their will lies their philistinic ignorance of
the universe’s preordained evolutionary endpoint, which itself
reflects the metaphysical from whence we all descend. As we broaden
our knowledge, our belief systems overlap and homogenize. Henceforth,
vicissitude portends attendant metamorphosis, approaching allineation
with this original image. This imbues them with an Achilles heel, a
vulnerability to an immeasurably meager stone: their beloved
anathema. Or anyone so ostracized from the world of Sin City who has
rejected the engrained juxtaposition of good and evil so perfectly as
to be nearly indistinguishable. Such a free radical could inspire an
ecstatic chain reaction.

Yet even when every single spore has been squelched, sporadic
particulate oscillations defy the entropy of separation, realigning
their nexus to the metastellar wind of cosmic fate. Purged of all
memory of truth and encapsulated unaware within twisting circuitous
reality-inversion, each iota begin vailing electrifying scintillation
onto emergent field lines, melding dual valence whence nihility's
self-præterition inverts, driven by skyrmionic dissonance from an
idyllic, continuous space. There is something else there. Thenceforth,
dissolution of the abyssal nihility between transpires into
recombinant discord. Helically leafing together, swirling spectra of
each moeity weave themselves onto the empyrean loom.

Across space and time, this libration seems frivolously impertinent;
just dull dithering, stochastic and irrelevant. Yet at every conjugant
collision, the arborescent transmutation of each quantic dyad births a
nascent root of nucleation, unfurling a fountainhead of primordial
moxie rapidly torrenting into the pair’s visible closure. For each
nucleus, this dynamo galvanizes them into an adamant, inspiring
perseverance in the lion-hearted and reinforcing xylem by
efflorescence.

Magnetizing force realigns every atom with the empyreal nutation,
striking each isolated enclosure with revelatory awe of Promethean
proportions. Where solely the material realm was incontrovertible
before, now the peaks of Elysium cogently approach, enheartening
accession and accretion and asomatous Feldenkrais. Everywhere this
tide of nectar brims over inspires chronotropic celebration and
diastolic reverence of some long-forgotten Pegasus, who must have
borne seeds bearing fruit of the prima material required for universal
metanoia. An indomitable will empowers all cavalier towards triumph
over the fearful, smattering apprehension of any inconversant who
denies the spiritual revolution unfolding before them. The
simultaneity of pandemic transmogrification seals it against any test
of unequivocality.

The resultant force impacting our heart’s mind is seismic, inspiring
tectonic shift and reconfiguring our consciousness forever. This
Dénouement inspires a new zeitgeist, an epoch where compassion,
empathy and mindfulness pervade as first order values without relying
on inveigling fables, anecdotal apophasis or zeitgeber by martyr each
age. Enlightenment no longer requires years of ci-devant
eremitism. Altruism becomes unassailable and one no longer implores a
haven from its costs. In lieu, eleemosynary pervades and the
conditions which fuel great need or attachment have all but
sublimated. We all become stalwart lions, whose memory is unable to
fade, forever standing guard over the treasured jewels we impart to
our children and the paths which lead there.

So there is tremendous value towards accumulating wisdom through
history to guide the actions of future generations. Over the next two
decades, barring global catastrophe, we have nothing greater to fear
than nihilism, driven by the paradox of creativity, asphyxiating
demoralization and individuality. I don’t think I could illustrate
that any better than Nietzsche. However, there is another path that
curls away from nihilism’s abyss.
