---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: My Own Beliefs"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "Indispensible Foundations to Mercurial Cultural Deconstruction"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

### Mercurial Cultural Deconstruction

- TODO: link articles together (TOC on each article)
  - how to do this in jekyll?

As we hurtle towards relative omniscience and relative omnipotence,
isn't it important for us to discuss what makes humanity or any group
worthy of wielding this power? If the primary belief system dictating
policy is atheism and, thus, based on being the absence of any belief
system, how can we ensure that whatever elements are in control of
technology will be reigned in by any set of rules? If we do not have
this discussion now, we will *never* have the opportunity. We need to
be confident that not only is there an ethical framework, but that it
is beyond insurmountable.  Moreover, we must rest assured that there
is a system of propagating such a framework, so that our children do
not find themselves overwhelmed by forces they can't understand, while
disconnected from the cultural paths which led there.

Elements of our culture will shift beneath us as we stand transfixed
in a stuporous awe of the lightning-fast transition of other cultural
elements.  In other words, our attention will be in the wrong place
and we won't see potential problems until they have saturated the
younger generations.  Each decade of youth will be increasingly
detached from other decades. The cultural spectra that emerge will
continue to diversify and detach until each distinct, detached "color"
in the spectra is but a year or two apart.

### Cultural Spaghettification

It's like the spaghettification experienced when falling into a black
hole: the closer you get, the more you get pulled apart, until you get
stretched incredibly thin, like spaghetti.  And such is the effect
that the singularity will have on each age group in our culture, which
is why the singularity might be metaphorically viewed as a
metaphysical black hole. This leads to the *Generation Rift*
phenomenon, described in
[The Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html).

### Generational Stratification

So, religion is a perfect tool for helping to counter this cultural
deconstruction and generational stratification, but it can only be
helpful if large enough sets of people in our culture share belief
systems. In particular, they must share those beliefs which form the
*basis* of the rest of their beliefs. The notion of a basis was
discussed in the first section of this series.  Where the bases formed
primarily from scientific knowledge are always shifting, those formed
by and tied to religion are much more constant.  In this way, elements
of religion act as *metacultural fixpoints* in the psyche of
believers.

### Metacultural Fixpoints

Without sets of archetypical fixpoints shared across large groups of
our society, without regard to class or ethnicity, we are going to
quickly find ourselves lost in the future. The basis for belief
systems formed by science is completely detached from anything
permenant. Like Ouroboros, it always cyclicly consuming itself: newer
beliefs in the basis superceeding older beliefs and the resulting
belief structure representing science's extrapolated sphere of
knowledge is constantly recalculated, then distributed. While this
process continues to accelerate, then the costs to cultural stability
will increase just as steadily. So we need these fixpoints to ground
our culture in something.

### Differential Singularity

We risk ending up dealing with a phenomenon I refer to as differential
singularity. This draws on the differential created in belief systems
as new discoveries in science are propagated outward to policy makers
and everyone else. In part one, I argued that there is significant
opportunity to abuse the differential and time delay here to profit
financially and politically.  However, as progress towards the
singularity increases this differential only grows wider.  We risk
creating a situation where the people currently in control of the
technology seal themselves off from threats to their power.

At some point, unless access to information is permitted, there is a
huge opportunity for the power-hungry to abuse this differential.
There are specific technologies which magnify the rate at which new
discoveries occur: this is the nature of the singularity.  On the
other hand, many of these technologies are incredibly dangerous and,
thus, the desire to wall these techs off is justified.  It is because
of this that the likelihood that a small faction of people would abuse
the differential singularity is all the more likely: because if they
did, who would know about it?

### I'm Still Searching

While I claim that religion is needed because of it's capacity to
shape the minds of the next generation, I haven't provided or accepted
such a vehicle myself.  I don't believe humanism is quite capable in
this regard and I feel like atheism completely disregards the value of
such a vehicle and our need for one.  However, I don't intend on
specifying how such a thing should be constructed for my own belief
system, since it is mine and mine alone.

To clarify, I am not trying to specify the "correct" religion or
specify the correct set of beliefs that should form the basis of a
religion or even specify that there could be such a "correct" set of
beliefs. To specify, because I don't believe it is possible for me or
anyone else to fully comprehend the entity which represents my
definition of God, I don't believe it's possible for anyone to state
that their set of beliefs is the superior belief system. I do not
intend to force my opinions and beliefs on others.  Please understand
my motivation behind writing this is sincere concern that we may find
ourselves unprepared for the future, regardless of which class,
ethnicity or religion we are part of.

# &#x0B87;&#x0BD0;&#x0E5B;

#### [&#x13EB; The Golden Rule](#the-golden-rule)

#### [&#x13EB; We Are All One](#we-are-all-one)

#### [&#x13EB; The Unknown](#the-unknown)

#### [&#x13EB; Negative, Neutral & Positive](#negative-neutral-positive)

#### [&#x13EB; The Intangible](#the-intangible)

#### [&#x13EB; Find Your Genius](#find-your-genius)

#### [&#x13EB; Timelessness](#timelessness)

#### [&#x13EB; Emphasizing Potential Over Faults](#emphasizing-potential-over-faults)

#### [&#x13EB; Help Others Grow](#help-others-grow)

#### [&#x13EB; Light & Dark, Good & Evil](#light-and-dark-good-and-evil)

#### [&#x13EB; Awareness and Understanding of Evil](#awareness-and-understanding-of-evil)

#### [&#x13EB; Everything Has a Purpose](#everything-has-a-purpose)

#### [&#x13EB; The Relative & the Absolute](#the-relative-and-the-absolute)

#### [&#x13EB; Familiarity with the Empty Mind](#familiarity-with-the-empty-mind)

#### [&#x13EB; Meditation](#meditation)

#### [&#x13EB; Always Keep Searching](#always-keep-searching)

#### [&#x13EB; Never Stop Stopping](#never-stop-stopping)

#### [&#x13EB; Independence](#independence)

#### [&#x13EB; Knowledge of Self](#knowledge-of-self)

#### [&#x13EB; Karma](#karma)

#### [&#x13EB; Devine Connection](#devine-connection)

#### [&#x13EB; Wisdom In Every World Religion](#every-world-religion-offers-valuable-wisdom)

#### [&#x13EB; Judgement & Forgiveness](#judgment-and-forgiveness)

#### [&#x13EB; Providing Purpose](#providing-purpose)

#### [&#x13EB; Understanding Our Personal Circumstances](#understanding-our-personal-circumstances)

#### [&#x13EB; Understanding Our Environment](#understanding-our-environment)

#### [&#x13EB; Axiomatic Waypoints](#axiomatic-waypoints)

#### [&#x13EB; Asymptotic Evaluation](#asymptotic-evaluation)

#### [&#x13EB; Moving the Lampposts](#moving-the-lampposts)

#### [&#x13EB; Reincarnation](#reincarnation)

#### [&#x13EB; Humility](#humility)

#### Self-Similarity



Just wanted to summarize over those, although that list is by no means
complete. And please let me emphacize: I in no way intend or intended
to create something that other people would follow. Dear God, no. That
would be irresponsible. I simply wanted to understand as much about
the world as I could, including world religions, though I'm
embarrassed to say I'm a complete novice.

And I'm ashamed to associate with any religion at this point,
honestly. I couldn't hope to touch something pure without getting it
dirty, whether it's Buddhism or Christianity or whatever. And while I
clearly see the value of religion and hold it's waning influence
partially responsible for many of the problems we have in the world
today, I find it difficult to defend because I haven't strongly
embraced any religion. I can't exactly use my interpretation of bible
verses as rhetorical defense because who am I to interpret something
like that, if I don't claim strong personal belief.

<a name="the-golden-rule"/>

### &#x2182; The Golden Rule

We should act as though we are all one and that to harm another is to
harm oneself. IMO, the Ten Commandments and Noahide laws are rules that
someone who truly respects another would not break.  Not because they
are clearly stated rules, but because someone who equinanimously
informs their action with empathy and awareness just wouldn't break
those rules.  Such a person's ethical rules for action might not
map up one-to-one with the Ten Commandments, but still, their actions
will mostly line up with them.

<a name="we-are-all-one"/>

### &#x2182; We Are All One

If we truly are all one, then harming another person is equivalent to
harming oneself.  This is why I try to extend the Golden Rule to
perceiving situations and interactions as though I am literally the
other person or people involved.  I will try to see the world through
their eyes. This and the Golden Rule are really the most important
aspects -- and I'm not sure that these are two separate things.
Almost everything else could be dropped or redefined.

At that point, one needs to decide on relative or absolute morality:
relativism vs. moral universalism of Kant.  This requires
universalability, which dictates that for an action to be permissable,
it must apply equally to every situation and every person.  It is
nearly impossible, but incredibly admirable to adhere to Kant's
philosophy, as it almost entirely nullifies your space of potential
actions.

Also, it is incredibly hard to practice empathetic behavior if people
warp the perception of you, so that you're a pariah. It's not an
excuse to limit one's interactions with others or restrict empathy,
but it is really hard to practice compassion or provide values to
others when one has no income and practically nothing to give.

Furthermore it's incredibly hard to see the world through someone's
eyes when they see you as a miserable useless piece of shit and they
never intend on allowing others to see you in an honest light.  Why
would I want to view their perspective, when all they intend is to
limit me, no matter what I do?  Of course, it is still crucial to try
because you can only connect with someone by empathizing with them.

<a name="negative-neutral-and-positive"/>

### &#x2182; Negative, Neutral, & Positive

Obviously, I miss the mark on compassion and the Golden Rule quite
often. It is one thing to do no harm and seek neutrality with the
world. For the most part, this is easy for me. But it is another thing
entirely to contribute to the world around you. Just because you don't
harm another doesn't mean you're actively giving back.  If you don't
expend time, energy, and resources contributing positively to the
people around you, you'll find yourself pretty isolated.  If someone
seeks to strip you of your resources to rob you of your capability to
positively influence people around you, this is incredibly depressing.

<a name="the-unknown"/>

### &#x2182; The Unknown

There is this mystical, ineffable force that pervades every fragment
of the universe.  It is powerful and we cannot ever hope to fully
understand it, but it's far from fruitless to try. This is the basis
for the connection between all of us, our karma, and the direction of
our individual fates.  I explain this a little better in this article
on the [Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html),
although the language is a bit dense.

<a name="the-intangible"/>

### &#x2182; The Intangible

The intangible is as real as the tangible. The beliefs of others are
as real as the chair I'm sitting in. The intangible extends to
metaphysical concepts beyond those based on information processed by
conscious, physical beings. There is consciousness everywhere;
everything is connected. And there are intangible metaphysical
artifacts pervading space and time.  They might be metaphysical and
thus, invisible and intangible, but the effects on our lives are very
real.

Some of these will never change -- and it could be argued that any
which are not perminant can be totally & summarily defined in terms of
those that are permanent. Math is such a universal, metaphysical
object, which cannot ever change by its nature and from which all
other things can be defined.  Therefore, they are timeless. Our
inescapable fates are defined in terms of the intangible and nothing
can escape it's reach.

<a name="find-your-genius"/>

### &#x2182; Find Your Genius

In addition to the Golden Rule, we need to think outside our current
time and place.  This means considering how people lived in the past,
as well as how they could live in the future. We should think of our
possible future selves as already existing and act accordingly.
Sometimes it's better imagine situations through the lense of our
idealized selves than from within the confines of our present
situation.

> If I were already the person I wanted to be, how would I handle this
> situation differently. That person that built my dreams, what would
> he or she have done to get there?

The Romans had their own concept of genius, which was like the design
essence that lay beyond our psyche: it was like our individual star in
the metaphysical sky. It resembles this concept of the idealized
self. When we are young, we should develop that kernel of knowledge
that allows us to best decide what we want to do with our lives and
helps us identify the pieces of knowledge which are most useful. It
helps if our parents can be very involved in our lives or that we at
least have some mentor who can fuel this development.  Our minds are
most pliable then and we have the most opportunity for them most
growth. Yet, it is unfortunate our time spent at the height of our
potential is precisely when we have a minimal understanding of the
world, preventing us from best planning how to invest that potential.

<a name="timelessness"/>

### &#x2182; Timelessness

I find it an invaluable tool to simulate ancient models of thought. It
helps to brainstorm other ways of viewing the world or of trying to
reach the same idea. I will think hard about problems to without
cheating by applying today's knowledge or technology.  For example,
trying to understand how arabian mathematicians understood algorithms
when they originally developed the concept. Or trying to think through
whether or not the ancient greeks would have been able to predict this
or that. If so, how would they have been able to predict these
conclusions. It's a useful tool, but can easily lead to unfounded
inferences, so it's important to keep that in mind.

So, for example, it would be possible for people to foresee that
overpopulation was the inevitable result of population growth, given
two things: exponential growth and the spherical, and thus limited,
shape of the earth. In fact, Ancient people were all to familiar with
constraints on their life imposed by overpopulation and the effects it
had on society.  Their building heights were limited to a few stories
and their lack of technology meant that food production was
limited.

Further still, they may have been able to at least imagine how things
would unfold in future events by specifying what those limitations
were that inhibited their growth: human/time/energy cost of food
production, transportation, communication, disease and the
like. Simply by enumerating these, then assuming that technology would
resolve them, and then iterating through scenarios derived from
combinations of sets where specific limitations were removed, they
could foresee social changes and events to unfold at some point in the
future. Or they could at least try. For example, if you assumed that
the time required for communication drops to zero or that the
bandwidth approaches infinite, you could surmise how that may change
society. If you assume disease could be controlled, then you might
surmise a large city with a democracy like Athens might thrive beyond
a specific population growth instead of becoming doomed by
epidemic. Understanding that cities hosting more than a specific
population size determined by the likelihood of catastrophe would
change the nature of long-term geopolitical influences: people would
lose interest in rural life and power structures in cities would
become more efficient.

Yet, there are many things which are complicated by our way of life.
In many ways, ancient people could foresee much more accurately than
we can comprehend. We don't have enough time to think the same
thoughts and, in so many instances, we assume that we already have the
answers and never bother to think through these questions ourselves.
The sturdy foundations of Western and Eastern philosophy are a
blessing and a curse, as all these great debates and discussions have
been resolved. We can learn about it, but most of us never have any a
postieri development of ideas which are structured independently of
those foundations. I think there is tremendous value in developing our
own thoughts, but because it's so difficult to do so once we're
exposed to superior means of framing philosophical questions, we never
have that chance.

And we perceive these ancient people to be ignorant because they lacked
technology when actually our way of life almost completely clouds our
vision and our minds.  We deal with so much irrelevant information and
non-sense. Our lives are so structured so that we cannot see beyond
our blinders. In some cases, it is impossible to reach many of the
same insights, which ancient people might consider common sense.

In fact, this is one idea behind the area of Buddhist eschatology
dealing with Maitreya.  Maitreya will appear in the future when most
people are disconnected with the dharma and he will achieve
enlightenment. After a certain point, people will lead incredibly long
lives and they will completely lose the ability to become enlightened
for a very long time. I want to refrain from making too many
conclusions about this, but to me, this means we are disconnected from
enlightenment because of some aspect of our culture or lives at that
time. Or, at least, that our ability to reach true enlightenment or
something like it can be significantly impaired by our way of life.

<a name="emphacizing-potential-over-faults"/>

### &#x2182; Emphacizing Potential Over Faults

I believe that we interact best with others when we see them for their
potential, instead of their faults. We shouldn't limit another's
capacity in our mind, through judgement or however. Too often we
develop some rigid preconcieved notion of how someone "is" and we
forget to think of them in terms of how they could be.

This has happened to every one of us: someone sets their expectation
of us and they treat us like that and we fall in line exactly with
their expectations. Example: someone is treated like they might be a
thief, they're hurt by the assumption and so, in response, they steal
something. The example's a bit extreme. Another common example
surrounds mental illness: someone is labelled as depressed or bipolar
or schizophrenic or quick to anger. And the reinforcement of the label
itself is responsible for reinforcing behaviors which contribute to
the label.

Obviously, if you find yourself in these kinds of situation, you
shouldn't give in and allow other people to define what you are.  That
is weak, but it is all too easy to give in. The harder people try to
label you, the louder and more vocal they are, and the more uniform
their assertions, the easier it becomes to give in.

Too often, I have allowed my silence and inaction to lead me to
becoming defined by others, and honestly, I am so fucking tired of
that.  Do not try to label me or define me or tell me what I believe
or explain to others what I think. I define myself. I have my own
beliefs. I think my own thoughts. And no one should assume they have
the right to ANY of that.

I have sacrificed so much in order to never give in, in order to
openly support drug legalization, so I will be damned if I let someone
else define me or speak for me. Though, honestly, letting someone else
speak for me probably wouldn't be too bad. However, I have been
victimized in the workplace by a handful of people and I just sat idly
by, not wanting to say anything wrong or worried that I'd sink to
their level. And I just sat there, while they made my life miseraable;
they ruined my life and I just sat there!  They obliterated any
confidence anyone had in my in my workplace and they did so in a
calculated, strategic manner.

And so my point is: do not find yourself in this position.  Define
yourself. Speak up. Be independent. Think your own thoughts. Listen to
others and especially to understand how they see you.

Conversely and by corrolary, make it easier for others to define
themselves, authentically.  You can do this by providing better
information to them about how you perceive them, though not
necessarily in a direct manner. You can give them the space and
autonomy to grow. You can share anecdotes and experience that might
end up being important to how they see themselves or what they decide
to do with their career.

But always be aware of the lens you're using to view them: is this a
perspective you've constructed independently? Is it honest? Is it
helpful? If this person needs change, do they want to change? Is that
desire to change just verbal or at the conscious level? Or does it
appear that the desire for change motives a few actions or does it
permeate their actions? It's important to be realistic and keep your
goals in mind.

There was a Rick and Morty episode about this concept of envisioning
someone in terms of their potential instead of their flaws. To
summarize, Beth and Jerry go to couples therapy and end up fighting
the way they envision each other, materialized as monsters. I won't
really spoil how everything works out, but it's worth watching. It's
episode 7 of the 2nd season: Big Trouble in Little Sanchez.

<a name="help-others-grow"/>

### &#x2182; Help Others Grow

It's important to give back and help those around you develop skills
and opportunity. There have been quite a few situations where I've
seen those in a position of relative power attempt to prevent those
around them from fully developing. It is usually to prevent that
person from pursuing greener pastures or from becoming more valuable
to that organization or whatever. Rule #1 is *Never Outshine the
Master*, after all. That's the first rule!

It's vital to be humble and patient towards those you're serving. But
in my experience, I remember those people who contributed to my
skills, career, personal life or hobbies, especially when it seemed to
run counter to their incentives. Teaching others and being a mentor
are invaluable means to enrich your self, your organization and your
community. In a very profound way. This is one of the best ways to
develop your social network. If you have a positive influence on
someone, especially if it took significant energy over a long period
of time, then you will develop a strong connection. That person is
probably going to represent you in a positive way.

And if, for whatever reason, someone limits your ability or
opportunity for teaching others, then imagine how much that would
limit you in life! One of my greatest mistakes when trying to organize
a jamskating team when I was about 18 was my failure to realize just
how useful and rewarding it would to help other people grow. I lost so
many opportunities for growth, resulting from partly my own failure to
recognize this, paired with the fact that many of the people around me
wanted me to ultimately fail. A decade later, I found myself asking
"Why the fuck did they not suggest X or advise me about Y?" The reason
is because many of the people around me never wanted me to succeed,
but they also did not want to appear to interfere. Why? Drug
legalization. It was because I supported legalization.

Actively or passively preventing someone from giving back to others
and being a positive influence in their live is the equivalent to
topping a tree. Their social network will be so stunted later in their
life and they probably won't know what happened. Again, there's much I
could have done and it's hard to argue that this was intentional.
Maybe they were justified. Maybe they never thought to do that and
it's just a coincidence that my only protege stabbed me in the back
more times than I can count.

<a name="light-and-dark-good-and-evil"/>

### &#x2182; Light & Dark, Good & Evil

These two concepts can each be viewed on a separate axis. Light and
Dark describe the degree to which something can be seen. Good and Evil
describe something like the morality of an action, event, person, or
piece of information. So darkness can enshroud evil actions or intent,
preventing actions from countering it, but it can equally protect
good. If some force for good can't be seen, then retains a bit of
unpredictability. Someone might "throw shade" on something or someone
to prevent it from being seen by others. This can cripple you if
you're suffering but no one realizes it because you've had your social
connections severed.

When you cast light on something, it makes it more apparent to
others. I've been serendipitously saved so many times by simply making
the right pieces of information seen. There are certain circumstances
you can avoid, just by making something known. There was very bad
experience I had in Denver, where I briefly moved in with someone who
was mentally ill. I didn't know him very well at all and I only lived
with him for 2 days before leaving. This was the most frightening
experience in my life because I already felt threatened, but I
suddenly realized that I had no friends or family who really knew
where I was. What scared me most of all was the degree to which this
guy would try to distract me when I pulled my phone out, especially
when I mentioned calling my family.

<a name="awareness-and-understanding-of-evil"/>

### &#x2182; Awareness & Understanding of Evil

There are types of events which are much more difficult for someone to
pull off if they know other people are aware of your situation or of
certain facts. And you'll find that manipulative or abusive people
will try to threaten you into not making information known. And
perpetrators of specific crimes, especially experienced repeat
offenders will try to ascertain specific peices of information to
gauge the likelihood of problems. If you provide them specific answers
that indicate vulnerability, they might take action.

If they're clever, they won't indicate or alarm you when they're
searching for this information. *THIS ITSELF IS THE BIGGEST RED FLAG.*
It is a huge indication that something is wrong when you ascertain
that someone is trying to read pieces of information from you that
indicate vulnerability to a specific type of crime or exploit. The
degree to which they hide their intent implies their skill and
foresight, as well as the degree to which you should fear that
situation. Good memory is important here because if someone rearranges
the order in which they attempt to acquire information, it obscures
cause and effect and becomes harder to detect that someone is going to
pull one over on you.

So, in order to recognize these situations, you really have to become
aware of the kinds of crimes or ethical omissions that people might
want to commit. You need to know what would motivate someone towards
that end or in what ways someone could be compelled to commit a
crime. Understanding the process, time and materials required for such
actions is also important in understand what information someone
requires. The more time they have, the more they can obfuscate their
actions to avoid detection.  The more resources they have, the more
likely they can involve other people, meaning that now, you not only
have to worry about the information you've given to one person, but
the information that you've given to several people and you need to
know how they're connected. If you're up against a well lubricated
machine that facilitates undercover activity, then the connections
will difficult to perceive.  If you're fighting a surveillance
apparatus, then you may need to be aware that they have information
you never disclosed to anyone.  If someone has information that you
have never disclosed to anyone or they have information that you ONLY
EVER disclosed to one person, that's a major red flag.

<a name="everything-has-a-purpose"/>

### &#x2182; Everything Has a Purpose

It's a bit interesting that knowledge of evil is required to fight
against it. If for some reason, evil disappeared, then we would be
totally inept against it in just a few generations. So, yes,
everything has a purpose. There is a reason for everything. If you're
a Christian, this can help answer the problem of evil: why would God
create evil or allow it to exist? Yet, it doesn't completely resolve
the problem of evil.

Again, everything has a purpose. Instead of immediately disdaining
manisfestations of negativity, you can reorient your perspective by
reminding yourself that there is a purpose and reason for everything.
If you get fired, maybe you belong in another company or industry or
career path.

My personal favorite is, when you can predict someone's sequence of
actions under various circumstances, you understand that they might
fulfill a particular purpose. It can be a bit screwed up to think of
people in this way.  It's another reason why, even though one might
cultivates a great understanding of the secret motion of things and a
great awareness of the state of the world, one should not interfere.
The subtlest of actions can have extraordinary consequences.

<a name="the-relative-and-the-absolute"/>

### &#x2182; The Relative & the Absolute

The relative and absolute can be applied to morality, but can also be
generalized to almost anything.  Moreover, there is a continuum
between the two.

Cohering to the relevant means you consider your relationship to your
local surroundings first, whether or not that means local in the
physical sense.  Cohering to the absolute means adhering to a set of
ideas that don't change under circumstance.

<a name="familiarity-with-the-empty-mind"/>

### &#x2182; Familiarity with the Empty Mind

It's peculiar, how an empty mind is so much more capable of
functioning than the conditioned mind. As tabula rasa, the empty mind
has the capacity for anything and yet nothing, so in itself it is not
very useful. Still, unlearning bad habits and untangling negative
beliefs and is incredibly challenging.  So it's best to learn things
right. As you develop further, if you actively observe beginner's
mind, you can use your awareness of it to partially apply it's
benefits as you need them.

...

One of the worst things you can do is reinforce an anxiety you have
about something, like a type of situation or a personal behavior. It's
best not to get hung up on this stuff because it can inhibit the rest
of your mind.  Some anxieties are basically your mind overexerting
itself on minor details.  This can be emotionally exhausting, but it
can also deplete your brain's chemical energy and the nutrients it
needs to function.

But a mind that is calm and focused on just the right aspects of a
situation works best.  But in order to develop

the mind is peculiar and there are definitely hacks
- analytical mind vs emotional mind
  - the two seem to inhibit each other
- exhaustion of specific circuits
  - nutrients are local resources in the brain
  - blood can revitalize cells with nutrients, but 

the point is, there are peculiarities to neural circuitry
- and to counter this, one of the best things you can do is empty your
  mind and focus on nothing

<a name="meditation"/>

### &#x2182; Meditation

Meditation or extended, focused prayer can bring calmness to your mind
and partially reset its state.

- often, meditation or relaxation or extended, focused prayer can
  bring calmness to your mind and somewhat reset it's state
  - this can alleviate anxiety or bring the clarity needed for insight
  - this same feeling can come from playing music or 


<a name="always-keep-searching"/>

### &#x2182; Always Keep Searching

> "I know that I know nothing" - Socrates

While remembering to appreciate the progress we've made, we must
accept that we will never fully develop.

...

<a name="never-stop-stopping"/>

### &#x2182; Never Stop Stopping

Too many people believe that they had an opportunity, but it's
passed. No matter how crazy something sounds or how impossible it
seems, if you believe that future to be determined, you have
relinquished control. Even when it seems like dozens of people are
stacked against some event or possibility, the second you accept it as
impossible, you are allowing fate to decide for you.

<a name="independence"/>

### &#x2182; Independence

We are best when we have as much power over our fate and circumstance
as possible. One should take great care if interfering in the life of
another.

<a name="knowledge-of-self"/>

### &#x2182; Knowledge of Self

We should know ourselves and our world. We can't know ourselves
without learning about the world and we can't fully understand the
world without knowing about ourselves.  Meditation, retreat into
nature, and education are great ways to learn about ourselves.



<a name="karma"/>

### &#x2182; Karma

Our actions matter, even when they are not seen. There is karma formed
from the beliefs of others, which is usually a response to your own
actions and beliefs. I also believe in universal karma, which is
outside our control or understanding.

- causality
  - there is another way. there is always another way
    - if it seems too hard, it means we are not yet skilled enough
      - we need to observe more of before we act


<a name="devine-connection"/>

### &#x2182; Devine Connection

We each have a connection to the divine. This is a concept from
gnosticism. Whether this connection is viewed
as ordinary or supernatural, I believe it is there and that some are
more in tune than others. It's something we can exercise through
reflection and medititation. And it is something that can be
suppressed by others.


<a name="wisdom-in-every-world-religion"/>

### &#x2182; Wisdom In Every World Religion

Whether or not you believe the words of a religious text, there is
value there. I would like to know as much as I can about the major
world religions. Though I can't say one is better than another and
each is fairly comprehensive, we would be well served through their
study. At the least, we learn about what other people believe.

... elaborate on philosophy here?


<a name="judgement-and-forgiveness"/>

### &#x2182; Judgement & Forgiveness

who has the right to judge anyone?
- can we ever truly understand how someone feels?
  - of course we can try
  - but we can never actually understand their situation.

<a name="providing-purpose"/>

### &#x2182; Providing Purpose

in our lives
- in others lives

finding our purpose



<a name="understanding-our-personal-circumstances"/>

### &#x2182; Understanding Our Personal Circumstances

We are born without any understanding of our world.  We should develop
understanding of our circumstances before deciding they should be
changed or pursuing action. It's a bit ironic that I'd feel strongly
about this, since in my college years, I expended a ton of energy
pushing as hard as I could for just that. Yet, perhaps that's exactly
what qualifies my feelings: I worked hard to change things I didn't
completely understand and misappropriated time & energy doing so.  I
would have been much better served had I reflected on my conditions
and learned a lot more about the world before taking action.

<a name="understanding-our-environment"/>

### &#x2182; Understanding Our Environment

Also, a similar concept applies to man's relationship with nature. Or
rather, this concept specifies how we relate to the world, globally,
instead of our personal situations. Both in how the individual relates
to the world and how humanity relates to the world.

I believe man should prove itself capable of maintaining nature as is
before attempting to alter it. We have caused so much change to nature
with science before developing tools capable of accurately measuring
it's state. The feedback loops that preserve balance are robust, but
delicate. If enough of them are altered or removed, the consequences
will be irreparably expensive, far outweighing any benefit from
cutting corners. Rather, we're just hoarding the profits for ourselves
and pushing the costs to another generation.

We have to encourage global cooperation towards this goal, while
accepting the risk that comes with being the first to act, as such
policies imply impaired capacity for competition.  The greatest
challenge is to balance the interests of nature and mankind with
global economic pressures and game theory -- we basically have to
convince industry leaders around the world that they should curtail
their profits, while leaving themselves open for other nations to
capitalize on the opportunity -- so I completely understand how we got
to this situation, but I don't understand why we let those factors
persist.  Actually, there are massive profits for those innovators who
develop solutions to help clean up what has been damaged. And it looks
like there was great progress towards this at Paris.


<a name="axiomatic-waypoints"/>

### &#x2182; Axiomatic Waypoints

Technology is rapidly changing our life and culture.  In this
turbulent period, what can we know to be unequivocally constant? What
can we identify and use as fixed reference points if the basis for our
culture and social structures is constantly shifting beneath our
feet.

This is one reason why religion will be relevant through these next
few decades.  The philosophical and ideological conclusions one
reaches by extrapolating scientific advancements remain in pace with
the rate of advancement.  The transition to the post-Singularity epoch
will necessitate constant and chaotic re-evaluation.  Yet, religion,
especially those with long-established tradition, remains constant,
regardless of how life changes around us.  So it is useful and, again,
atheism is short-sighted.

<a name="asymptotic-evaluation"/>

### &#x2182; Asymptotic Evaluation

This is more of a tool I use to evaluate new ideas in the concept of
trends, regardless of whether it's a past, present and
future. Basically, I ask myself, what happens if I take that to
infinity? Or zero?

Examples: what if there was no cost or energy required
for communication? Or what if the maximum theoretical energy density
for batteries changes dramatically? What's the realistic range to
expect that maximum to change to?  What if all information was
available everywhere?  Or what would it be like if we approached a
world where information was instantly available everywhere?  What if
the speed of light was not a limitation?

So this "asymptotic evaluation" is a tool that I use to augment my
powers as a futurist. But developing a better understanding of what
this transitionary period will be like is vital if we survive the next
filter in Fermi's Paradox.

<a name="moving-the-lampposts-"/>

### &#x2182; Moving the Lampposts

Another tool that I use to examine problems. Science is constantly
developing better tools to measure phenomena. One of the best
examples is X-Ray crystallography, for which like 50 Nobel Prizes have
been awarded.  If it weren't for this one technique, steampunk would
still be in-vogue and not because it's some kind of chic, hipster
style.

So
[moving the lamposts](http://movingthelamppost.com/blog/html/index.html)
isn't exactly my idea or expression, but I seem to be fairly
proficient with it.  Basically, if we're having a hard time seeing
where we are, what if we had a better, brighter flashlight? If we had
an innovative means of measuring some phenomenon, wouldn't we make new
advancements at what would seem to be warp speed?

<a name="reincarnation"/>

### &#x2182; Reincarnation

I'm not sure whether or not I believe that reincarnation is real. I do
to some extent, the specific details of which I don't want to explain.

However, I want to believe that reincarnation is real because I want
- bc i want to believe that our lives carry meaning to the next


gnosticism:
- and the authorship of those works are hotly debated. Many
- if not most are probably fallacious, but it's

  - living your life as though it was a movie and you're the hero
    - what's your story?
    - this mindset could go horribly wrong, so how to limit it?
      - e.g. someone has the wrong view of reality, does something horrible
      - or someone decides to be the villain
  - thinking outside the box by lifting arbitrary constraints and
    taking concepts to their limits

<a name="humility"/>

### &#x2182; Humility

## Conclusions

- briefly restate the argument to show that "God is not dead" by
  asserting the inevitable arrival of an übermenschlich entity.
  - assert that this means faith is no longer necessary for belief in
    God, since this entity's development assymptotically approaches
    the metaphysical reflection of God
  - this doesn't preclude faith, but means faith is no longer
    necessary.
    - but it can still leave us dealing with the fallout of a belief
      system that is undeniable, where faith is not required.
      - a belief system dependent on faith instead of undeniable
        evidence has it's own qualities and benefits
    - and furthermore, it still leaves us with the responsibility of
      dealing with the problem of nihilism, which Nietszche feared.

> "Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live
> forever." - Mahatma Ghandi


> "Every man is born as many men and dies as a single one." -
> Heidegger

The argument I made to refute Nietzsche in part one actually alters
the nature of propositions leading to Heidegger's statement above.
Every man is born with just as much potential, but merges into the
entity representing the sum of human information, the entity that
attempts to reflect the omneity of the metaphysical world.  So we
never truly die, and we merge our consciousness into this entity in
order to become every man.  And because everyone born after a certain
point is doomed to the same fate, one might say we have no choice in
this regard.

The conclusions here depend on the specific capabilities of technology
at the point and of the final capabilities of such technology,
particularly whether we can virtualize, fork, transfer or merge
consciousness and whether such capabilities are complete or
approximated.

But, instead, I'll just leave it as "Every man is born as many men and
becomes every man." Ramifications of the arguments I've put forth are
numerous and significant to how we see ourselves and our relationship
to the universe. I've only tried to clearly state thoughts which I
never wrote down. I don't mean to say that because of these beliefs
that nothing else is possible. I could be wrong about a lot of it and
much of it (maybe most of it) is not actually novel. People have been
talking about the singularity for a very long time.

It's crucial for people to mill over these issues, as we
are approaching developments which lead to a fundamental restructuring
of the world.

(change to be areferential)

Even if someone manages to purge all memory of an individual, you will
never manage to purge all reflections of that person which are alive
inside all of us. Those fragments don't need to be linked by name to
survive -- in fact anonymity was a crucial element, as the love and
oneness we strive for would lose power and relevance if it were
named. And the most important fragments, in fact, would only be
rediscovered, as they are pieces of universal truths. What I have
begun and what we have set in motion cannot be stopped, nor should it
be.

- you're #WhatHaveViews
  - thoughts belong to those who think them.
  - words belong to those who write them.
  - languages belong to those who speak them.
  - and our memes? they belong to us
  - our languages? they belong to us
