---
title: "From the Parapets of Alexandria: Philosophy of Censorship"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics epistemology censorship"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# **アレクサンドリア**の**丏**から

# Censorship's Effect on Development

What effect does censorship have on development of society, culture,
technology and discourse? This can be demonstrated with many examples
where restricted discourse led to stagnated development in each of
these dimensions of humanity. This leads to a phenomenon which is the
opposite of the Singularity: progress plateaus. In any case, a plateau
or stepped progression may be natural, but this is a certainty, given
a level of censorship.

Central to this series is the observation that the global elites could
not have misunderstood the progression of technology and it's effect
on the dissemination of information. How widespread this understanding
was is up for grabs, but I believe that we have been misled with false
futurism. Understanding how these global elites knew and knowing how
they knew furthers my belief that they intent to enact a global
reset. Regardless of what the ruling class in each country knew and
when, people understand now the power that free information and
knowledge impart! Knowledge is power!

I am trying to warn people that if you do not appreciate this power
and stand up for it right now, it will be taken from you. I will also
show that there are many reasons for *some information* to be
restricted. This will act as a duplicitous cover to restrict
dissemination of *all information*. This is sad because we are
entering an age where decentralized, unmonitized and truly free
transmission of information cannot be impeded, which is why, if there
were to be a total collapse, it would occur now. As in right now. As
in within the next few years. A decade at the most.


How does cheap and free transmission affect people? How does it lead
to progress? The power of a simple message unimpeded can change the
course of civilizations. At Thermopolae, the brave acts of hundreds of
Spartans struck fear into the heart of Persians and funneled vigor
into the hearts of Greeks to rise up and resist the oncoming
hordes. Would this envigorating effect have been possible if not for
the story? What if it couldn't be told?

What about the Battle of Marathon?! Greeks defeated the Persians and
news of this victory was so critical that Pheidippides ran over twenty
miles to bear news of it's victory. *Every marathon you run is part of
a millenia-old celebration of being the first to deliver a message!*

In Kublai Khan's 13th century Mongol invasion of Japan, a typhoon
decimated the Mongol's forces. I believe that the dissemination of
information was somehow responsible for this. I don't know how it
would be possible or the exact details. If the Japanese baited the
Mongols into attacking at just the right time, then they changed the
course of information. Why? If this is so, it is because they had the
right information and the Mongol navy, mostly docked on the coast of
Japan didn't. This may have been pure luck. It's certainly not widely
known as anything else.

# Who Loves Hip Hop?

*I do*. Hip Hop is a modern example of how the dissemination of
information changed the lives of millions of people living in mostly
African American and Hispanic ghettos in urban America.  In
particular, it is about the democratization of music production
hardware. It is the first time that *everyone* had access to all the
equipment needed to produce music, no crazy white man involved.

In the late 70's and early 80's, music production equipment was still
expensive, but it was the first time since the invention of radio that
someone could produce and record music by themselves. Along came the
Roland 808 Drum Machine and anyone could produce simple loops. Without
much other hardware, one could program a loop and rap over it.

No studio engineer. No musicians except the musicians. No pricey
studio hours. The songs could be created by individuals. If they could
get it on a tape, they could play it somewhere. If it was good, they
could then pay to have it mastered by a recording engineer. This
allowed urban musicians to experiment with new forms and there was
nobody above them that told them they couldn't make it or push it to
syndication on the radio waves. It was this change in the economics
and technology of music that paved the way for the cultural revolution
known as Hip Hop.

Hip Hop represents the equivalent of the Internet in terms of
democratization of technology in the music industry. It is the 20th
century's equivalent of the printing press. It is similar in how
economic and technological factors transformed social and cultural
conditions. This empowered millions of people and cutting out those
few who stood in the way since the birth of radio and mass media!

Def jam poetry evolved into MC's lyrical style. Block Party DJs like
‪‎Kool Herc‬ and ‪Africa Bambaataa‬ battled with innovative DJ styles and
collaborated to architect a cultural movement that simply couldn't be
stopped. Lyrics provided a lens into conditions and poverty in ethnic
urban communities which were otherwise lost and forgotten. Until this
radio explosion radio was tightly controlled and continued to be for
decades. The cassette recorder & player was the next major
advancement. It meant anything with a headphone out or a tape
interface could record a mixtape that could be copied and shared with
friends. No longer could white, corporate types maintain a music
industry cabal. Everyone who could afford a Walkman or earlier
incarnations of cassette tech could make their own music.

Again, democratization of music production birthed a genre of music
giving a voice to those otherwise silenced for generations. And why?
Because it gave poor people a megaphone. Do you think the average
person would let specific practices continue if they really understood
the effects? No. So if you can share information, you can put a stop
to things!

###

Why did Black Lives Matter arise in 2014, 2015 and 2016? Because of
the democratization of government statistics required for data
science. Quite simply, before this time, most of that data had been
inaccessible. In the early 2010's and especially in late 2013, there
was a huge push to democratize data for all governments in the United
States and around the world. In the US, state and local governments
*digitized, released and publicized* records including arrest and
incarceration records.

It was this movement to digitize and publicize data that sowed the
seeds for the anger that ensued. This anger was well justified, though
I hope we funnel this into positive movement and come together. The
reason people were so angry is because they could finally show that
there was a lot of unconscious racism across America. Furthermore,
there were these pockets where institutionalized racism was
harbored. These places were cities and districts where it was
UNDENIABLE that you had conscious, instituationalized racism, where
the local law enforcement was acting as "Sherrifs of Nottingham" and
intentionally enforcing laws in pursuit of suppression. These places
were few and far between IMO. Ferguson is such an example, where the
disparity is so pronounced it is undeniably conscious.

In subsequent sections, I'll discuss


###

- effect on discourse
  - "dead ends" in the graph of knowledge, without access to requisite
    knowledge.
- mention whitelisting/blacklisting

- tie in how democratization of music production helped change
  conditions in poverty stricken neighborhoods in NYC and other large
  American cities.

Who loves ‪#‎HipHop‬? I do. It

The 808 drum machine
and similar equipment (expensive, but not prohibitively so) expanded
music production control to more people and removed the requirement of
a staffed studio from the logistic equation. Cheaper sampling also
changed the game and paved the way for innovation. ONE PERSON could
produce music in a way that was easier and cheaper than ever
before.

- would this same development be possible when the means of
communication have been seized?

#### Part Two: Philosophy of Censorship

- what is needed in the introduction?
  - the stuff on Harvard lulz

- a focus on why free exchange of ideas matters!
  - why is it that free exchange of ideas leads to progress for
    humanity
  - why and exactly how does limiting the free exchange of knowedge,
    information and ideas lead to limiting progress of humanities &
    philosophy
    - especially from an epistemological standpoint
- when is it ethically permissible to restrict free
  development/exchange of ideas?


### how do we develop new ideas?

- to distinguish b/w an idea that is truly "new" and those that are
  not, we have to compare it to everything we know.
  - an individual can compare ideas to those he/she knows or to those
    that are available to his society or to those available to some
    group/subgroup
  - if a person is comparing an idea to those he knows individually,
    he needs to be familiar with each idea to discern how similar each
    is. if the idea in consideration is new, then it will be highly
    dissimilar with most or all of those ideas.
  - if the person is trying to expand the set of ideas available to a
    group, like his community or his country or the world
    - then they need to be familiar with not just the set of ideas
      available to themselves, but also to the world.
    - this means the person must be fairly knowledgeable, all around
- so therefore, by whitelisting appropriate ideas or blacklisting more
  than just a few, a society does themselves a grave disservice.
  - they prevent themselves from expanding to new ideas.
  - when some ideas are difficult to talk about or think about, it
    becomes difficult or *impossible* to reach other conclusions.

### the transmission and retention of ideas is a transgenerational concept

  - all you have to do to make everyone forget an idea, person,
    place or thing is make people stop talking about it for 2 to 3
    generations.
  - even if it does not disappear completely, it will lose power or
    relevance.
  - there are people who know this and they specifically seek to
    suppress ideas long enough for them to disappear. to do so, you
    must do it silently. you must convince people they should not talk
    about specific things or think about them or share them with other
    people.
    - if you can reduce people's thought or speech on a topic for a
    few generations, you can almost remove it from the noosphere.
- ... more here?

# Restricted Rhetoric

(not the intro)

Our stifling debate in academia and in the media is nauseating. We're
so deadlocked in debate that we've placed Washington in in gridlock.
They can't get anything done because that is exactly what billions of
dollars in funding and a stifled debate does when you're running the
world's second largest democracy.

What's the difference between Ivy League education and most college
education? Said it before: it's the level of precision in which they
understand the mechanics of their craft. Ivy League schools are run by
old guard professors who, come from families deeply entrenched in
academia, for the most part.

### Destructured Debate

For politics, law, medicine, philosophy, it is possilbe to only
understand various possible arguments for something, but it's possible
to enumerate *all* of the reasonable arguments for it. Not only that,
but it's possible to understand all of the reasonable arguments that
people are likely to make and why. Further, one can look at the
individual arguments someone makes for one issue or for any issue and
infer the structure of their personal belief system.

For any number of arguments or belief systems, it's possible to
extrapolate the propositions required for them to make a particular
argument. Since one observes and reflects upon all of the possible
arguments for an issue, problem or idea, then one can see that
arguments X/Y/Z all require statements or propasitions A/B/C in order
for their conclusions to be valid. If you can't include statements
A/B/C, then you can't argue for X, Y, and Z. If making statements
A/B/C get you fired, well you better not even approach arguments that
are similar in conclusion to X/Y/Z or commonly thought to include
A/B/C. That's because, if it's commonly known that statements A/B/C
are reviled and part of arguments with similar conclusions to X/Y/Z,
then the common person might think you are racist, mysogynist, or
... worse. Crazy, right?

For politics, law, philosophy, debate, or any subject which requires a
degree of rhetoric and logic, Ivy League schools, students and staff
methodically understand all possible arguments for an idea or all the
ideas relevent it. They excel in this stuff and I'm not even
kidding.

How do I know this? I once took a Copyright Law class that Harvard Law
offered through EDX for free. I had already looked at some of MIT's
Open Courseware homework and test questions through the years, from
which I had found their questions to be interestingly different (reword)

Even though the EDX Copyright Law class was free, it divided classes
into 20 groups of 25 students, each with a real Harvard Law TA. And I
can tell you, even though I didn't keep up with the readings and
studies like I should have, in attending the sessions, *HOLY SHIT* the
way in which they covered these subjects departed starkley from my
expecations. They were difficult, but not just difficult, in that, I
don't know the details. It was difficult in that they methodically
combed through the subject matter to find just the exceptions to the
rules. They already assumed that their students would be bored with
the basics and instead covered some cases which really left me
scratching my head. Copyright Law cases in which *there really was no
good answer* and in which you really, really needed to know your stuff
to make an argument and understand how, because there was no valid
argument, an opponent might attack your argument with just as much
substance.

Ivy League with Cambridge and Oxford, this segment of academia really
sets the intellectual pace across the world, especially with regard to
the humanities. They control how you think about the things you learn
about. It's incredibly powerful and they do it for good reason and IMO
they have quite completely established the authority for doing
so. Think about how much respect a faculty head or professor emeritus
from Harvard or Oxford commands. This makes them one of a handful of
people who has been at the head of the pace in their field for
decades.

What does this have to do with the philosophy of censorship?
- when their complete understanding is combined with duplicitous
  arguments to justify policy, this ....

Well, the other major difference is that

- other major difference in Ivy League educated people? i forgot hahah
  - oh! *complete* mastery of subject matter and *how it is perceived*
    means that one can create duplicitous justications for policy.
    - in not just one way but many
    - they know exactly what a policy/action implies and how it can be
      sold and reasoned for to avoid inspection of the policy
  - these long-term plans by the "elitinati" require fragmentation into
    such duplicitous arguments for policy.
    - each side, the left and the right, need to be sold on a policy
      where any movement forward retains "the part that no one's
      supposed to see"
      - in order for it to retain that, no one can talk about it
      - anyone that talks about it should be associated with belief
        systems that are meant to be ridiculed.
    - drug war => paramilitarization of police
      - talk negatively about the drug war? you're probably a crack
        head
    - terrorism in conjunction with illegal immigration => effective
      and complete identification system combined with increased
      government monitoring of business to business transactions
      - talk negatively about RealID? you're probably a domestic
        terrorist
      - talk negatively about increased government intervention in
        business activity? obviously you want the terrorists to win,
        don't you?
  - the point is the left and right have deadlocked each other since
    the end of world war two. THIS IS BY DESIGN!
    - because the elites are preparing for a world where this stuff is
      necessary! there really is justification for these policies they
      are trying to sneak in
    - and i'm saying that the Ivy League is one of the most crucial
      means by which debate is controlled to ensure that this grand
      unseen plan will eventually be implemented.
    - and honestly, it's not evil. it is needed. why? overpopulation
      in a world where the 21st century isn't going to be friendly to
      America means that we're going to have some problems. the whole
      world is going to have some problems and it might lead to chaos
      where we not only lose control, but America's destiny is to be
      the subject of some foreign interest at a most critical time in
      history when the fruits of technology innovation are ripened.
      - that thing that european culture helped foment and make
        possible through the enlightenment and industrial revolution
        and by which it helped raise the rest of the world up through
        globalization at a cost & risk to itself? YEH THAT THING IS
        ABOUT TO BE TURNED AGAINST AMERICA
    - it might be sexy and cool to burn American Flags across the
      world, but let's be honest. is america really that bad? HELL NO!
      We are one of the strongest forces for good in the world. Yeh,
      there are some countries that really don't like us. That much is
      quite obvious. Usually it's because they are friends with our
      enemies or were friends with our enemies at the time. Communist
      Russia was crazy as fuck. Do you even realize what Stalin wanted
      to do? Do you understand what that drunk bastard tried to do to
      the world? HOLY SHIT! He was planning to invade Europe the whole
      time! Even before World War Two. And he was planning on !@#$'ing
      us, while he sat there and drank Vodka Sweet Tea with Roosevelt
      and Churchill at the Yalta Conference. That fucker was sitting
      there drinking tea and you know what we thought we'd let him do?
      We thought we'd let him show us how stupid he thought we were
      because I gotta tell you Roosevelt and Churchill could not have
      possibly been that fucking stupid.
      - maybe a lot of this content should be moved (it should)


The left mostly controls Silicon Valley, though they are fairly
impartial with regard to technological implementation. However, nearly
all of the communication out there has shifted towards social media
and online messaging platforms. So if you get censored for some
reason, that's kind of a big deal.

- how control over silicon valley means control over the fabric and
  applications of the internet.

- transition into why control over the fabric of the internet is
  important
  - eventually transition into describing the epistemology of
    censorship
-


# Epistemology of Censorship

#### there are cultures that seem to blacklist specific ideas.

- this includes Russia in the 2000's (I think) and it even includes
  America, to some extent. America has always suppressed a few,
  specific ideas. Obscenity was a big deal in the 60's, for example.
  - anybody remember *Deep Throat?*
  - the movie, not the source
- this isn't so bad, in itself. it really depends on how it's used,
    but one could argue there are some ideas that must be censored.

- more examples here:
  - western medicine's control over academic journals
    - meh... maybe not

- blacklist ideas that can't be included as statements/propositions in
  arguments.
  - and commonly associated conclusions
  - briefly mention, then include in detail later
    - to correlate points on epistemology with rhetoric

#### there are other countries which whitelist ideas

  - they "encourage" that ideas to be the only things you think
  about. their leaders espouse some cult of personality. nearly
  everything else outside that is restricted. not on merit, but on the
  principle that other ideas might provide competition for the state's
  mindshare, the marketshare of thought and discourse!!
  - this should scare the !@#$ out of you, by the way
  - some nations will outlaw religion, for example. Christianity, in
    particular, because they are SCARED of a KING WHO CANNOT BE
    KILLED! they cringe in fear when they realize that their populace
    might hold them to the standard of a man who died 2,000 years ago!
    some of these people claim he doesn't even exist! but for someone
    who doesn't exist, Christ sure exerts a lot of power over us.
  - we need this in society. our leaders need to fear being held up to
    a higher standard. they cannot be granted the ability to make or
    break rules and laws on whims. they cannot be allowed to decide
    what's ethical or moral today, just to change it again next week.
- regardless of what you think about religion or God or the flying
  spaghetti monster, you should beware the militant atheist who would
  deny the right to God for everyone. in general, beware the person
  who would force you to believe that every path except the one they
  follow is wrong. this is much different than those who try to
  convince you that their path is the only right path.

  - qaddafi's citizens weren't allowed to learn foreign languages
    - or was it gaddafi? did anyone else find it strange when we
      started spelling this guy's name in two different ways?

# Ethics of Censorship in the 21st Century

- ... expand on this

# Summary/Conclusions

### someone is pulling some serious fuckery in this country

- and it starts with censorship. the dialogue is stifled. we can't
  talk about things. why not? who said we don't have free speech? WHO
  THE !@#$ SAID THAT? Did we pass a law about that? Is there a law
  that says you can't write bad philosophy? Or that if you do, people
  aren't allowed to read it? WHAT THE !@#$????
- i think it's some kind of foreign influence, but i don't know who
  they are or how "they" are organized.
- but they are screwing with the structure of society. they are
  removing people from positions of influence. they are restricting
  free speech. they are isolating people who are threats. they are
  ruining families. they are assaulting religion (or they tried to in
  2014!) they are disempowering individuals.
  - THIS IS PART OF A CONCERTED STRATEGY.
    - these could be traditional bolshevik-type tactics
    - or this could be part of a concerted strategy to

### i don't know who these people are, but you should be afraid.

  - because by the time you realize what's going on, america will be
    on its knees and essentially in bondage.
    - they aren't afraid to abuse the national security apparatus to
      push people around or rob them of their income and their sense
      of community.
      - those people who do misuse this: why don't they attack islamic
        radicalism? that's a really good question!
  - the people fighting for these changes think it will work out for
    them. but when america loses, all americans lose.
  - if our economy ceases to function, we cannot collect taxes to pay
    for the services that the left values so much. that we all value.
  - if there is some other significant problem that constrains
    american influence or power, again, it's going to be tough for all
    americans. all americans will lose!

### ALL THREATS => FOREIGN **AND** DOMESTIC

- these people, whoever they are, whether they are foreign or
  domestic: they are using dangerous, divisive, subversive tactics and
  they just basically do not care. they are amoral. they do not care
  whether they need to threaten your family. they might say they'll
  stand up for you. they do not respect God and they'd rather America
  be a Godless nation.
  - but, as we've all read before, once they taken everyone else away,
    who'll be left to stand up for you?!
  - if you stand idly by and watch our country's influence and
    prestige erode away, truly who will be left to stand up for you?
  - we absolutely cannot let this happen.

### HOW ARE WE **AS AMERICANS** LETTING THIS HAPPEN?!!

end of part two?
