---
title: "Sepsis, the OPM Fallout and Neo-Bolshevik Movement in America"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "communism politics economics"
categories: blog
headline: "They out there fuckin Lady Liberty down by the harbor and everyone can hear her scream!"
excerpt: "
That's right, they out there fuckin' Lady Libery down by the harbor
and everyone in Manhattan can hear that bitch screaming, but because
she's got a bag on her head and she's asphixating from the gag in her
throat, it's OK. It's OK folks. She probably likes it. Lady Liberty's
turnin blue in the face and somebody's running a train on her and
everyone knows it, but ... it's OK?
"
---

What's going on in America right now? I have no idea, but it's the
nonchalance that scares me the most. This post rambles from place to
place.

Basically, we're trying to avert what is a cross between AIDS and
neo-bolshevism from taking over and destroying America. That, and the
good guys are trying to culturally transform America into one that
overcomes decades of demoralization, is willing to fight if we need to
and seizes the day, in terms of the 21st century economy. As much as I
hate to admit it, America's best moves in the 21st century would have
been more of what Bush was doing. And I hate to admit it because I
hated that guy when he was in office.

# America's In A Cultural Crisis

America's in a cultural crisis and there's some radical factions that
seem to have taken over.  Even though I'm a bit of a populist, I can
tell you that, in the long term, any major leftist cultural movement
right now will totally destroy this country and its economy before
2030, if it hasn't already. If we can stave that off without
succumbing to internal or external pressure, I have a real plan for
the next few decades that will transform not only America, but also
the world.

### What Is Socialism Without An Economy?

What is socialism without a competitive economy? It's a fucking
third-world country in the making. That's what. I know there's some
people out there that really like the ideas of socialism. Yes, the
economic pains in America are painful. But, socialism destroys the
incentives people have for working. The numbers don't fucking work in
the long term. I wish they did. Wouldn't that be nice: we could just
feed the poor and house the homeless and break out our checkbook
whenever there were problems. Social ills? Poverty?  Just throw money
at it. As much money as it takes, year after year. It doesn't matter
how much.

Basically, the programs socialism has to offer that keep people eating
in times of protracted or prevelant poverty drain the coffers. They're
funded by tax dollars. And where are tax dollars made? FROM REAL
ECONOMIC GROWTH AND VALUE! These things come from nowhere else, so
when the economy eventually breaks, so does your fucking free ice
cream machine. It just don't work no more.

# What is a Bolo, Trebek!

Have you noticed the creeping darkness in our country over the past
decade? Well I did and I was one of the first. This has everything to
do with OPM. IMO, we're are in the middle of a partially aborted
neo-Bolshevik revolution where a drunk doctor addicted to cheap money
has empowered the wrong people. There are multiple factions involved
and things are starting to get very patient.

### We Weren't Intended to Know to React

The leftists never wanted us to figure this was happening until it was
too late. And so now we have to deal with this grotesque nightmare of
figurative "sepsis" ... No, it's not the kind of sepsis that somehow
gives you the persistent chlamydia from weeks of late night ragers and
promiscuous sex. Nope, this is the sepsis that turns America's own
immune system against itself. And now people are getting pissed.

### It's a Cockfight

People seem to be waking up to the fact that we're in something like a
cockfight. Except, one of those roosters has it's head cut off and
it's not a fair fight. Oh yeah, and international bankers are trying
to take bets on who's going to win this fight. Typical, am I right?
In the Civil War, there were bankers from Europe who tried to do the
same damn thing, basically, except they wanted to do it in the middle
of civil war.

### Which Chicken Would You Bet On

I don't know why that other rooster is fighting us, but I know that
we're losing. Or it sure as hell looks like we are because, to me,
it's obvious that an anti-American cancer has taken strong root in our
country. It's spreading and it's turning us against ourselves, via
HomeSec and our intelligence community. As far as I can see, someone
decided to take that totalitarian apparatus we constructed in the Bush
administration and they turned it against America. Then someone hacked
the comm protocols ... and oh yeh, THEY HAVE A FUCKING LIST OF AGENTS
AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES.

### What Overton Window?

#### You Can Think About What We Tell You To... And Don't Fucking Write About It If You Didn't Reblog It

Meanwhile, this particular faction is has slammed the Overton Window
shut and they're pushing many policies which are going to wreck the
American economy, leaving the chips of the global economy in the hands
of whoever is driving this cockfight. That's the calling card of
Bolshevik politics: pursue policies with duplicitous arguments that
appeal to the poor in the *short-term* by siphoning wealth and
influence away from the rich and are disastrous for everyone in the
long-term.

In the end, when the dust settles, no one will have power or
money. And the people who get blamed? Well, it's the Bourgeoisie of
course! This requires a total reset, where the people installed with
power have zero generations of experience under their belt. Sounds
great right?  Well stuff that idea box full of your suggestions and if
you're lucky they'll use them against you, stealing the credit and
retaining the profits and using that against you too. The only thing
these neo-Bolsheviks managed to accomplish was a catastrophic economic
disaster while avoiding accountability via deceipt and duplicity.

### Fallout Zero: A Reality Show from Bethesda

The fallout? America loses it's wealth and loses it's influence on a
global scale, placing the power in the hands of the shitdicks that
made this happen, all while leaving the common American with the same
damn problems they had before: crippling poverty. Oh, except "it's OK"
because "now there's no classes! Everybody's poor!" YAYY! Superfun!
Every American's just as poor as the other and the rest of the world
takes turns gangraping America for a century.

That's right, they out there fuckin' Lady Libery down by the harbor
and everyone in Manhattan can hear that bitch screaming, but because
she's got a bag on her head and she's asphixating from the gag in her
throat, it's OK. It's OK folks. She probably likes it. Lady Liberty's
turnin blue in the face and somebody's running a train on her and
everyone knows it, but ... it's OK?

# America has FOSO

To me, this is equally terrifying as it is obvious. Why? BECAUSE THIS
IS HAPPENING AND THE PEOPLE WHO SHOULD STOP IT SEEM TO BE SOILING
THEMSELVES IN FEAR OF SPEAKING OUT. FOSO. These bozos have F.O.S.O.

### Fear of Speaking Out

Why? If the answer is because of patriotism, that might be acceptable
to me. Depending on the circumstances.... However, I don't think
that's the case. It would seem that America as a whole is being
conditioned to be quiet. Just be quiet. Don't ask any questions. Don't
write about it or you'll lose your job. Don't speak about it on
TV. Keep talking about it on the internet and you'll find yourself on
a list. Any of the above, and good 'ole
[SMERSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMERSH) will let you know that
they're out there watchin your kids walk home from school.

# How Do We Fix This?

Make no mistake. Every fucking day, America's enemies gain
power. There may be no person in America more knowledgeable of how to
fight this than me. However, y'all gotta get this fucking gag out my
mouth and get me a position where I can tell people what to fucking
do and what to learn, without fearing that every person on Twitter or
Facebook is going to know what I said.

### Stand Up For Your Rights!

The thing part of the social contract: if everyone stands up, then the
people can't be stopped. So if we know there's a problem then we can
stop that problem. This is why there's such an emphasis on not
informing the American public: the people doing this know we couldn't
possibly tolerate it. They know they wouldn't get away with it if we
knew. The truth is, we might as well all be in Guantanamo because we
all have blacks bags on our heads. The bags are an allusion. No, not
an illusion. Well, yes, both actually. The bag just means you don't
"get it." You're in Cuba and you don't even fucking know it.

### Beware the Weaponized Self-Interest of Others

I've never lived in a situation like this. All I know is that America
is woefully unprepared to live in this. We have no idea what it would
feel like to live in an East German level situation, with a constant
campaign of cultural suppresion and externally driven reprogramming.
However, my own capacity for understanding machiavellian tactics of
tyranny scares the shit of me sometimes.

My advice: the number one thing to watch out for right now is getting
stabbed in the back those whom you thought were closest: your friends
and family. In a system like this, the level of information you expose
to the outside world represents your scope or surface area of
vulnerability. Therefore, keep your circle tight. Keep a close eye on
the people you let in. Trust no one. Stay aware of people who try to
confuse you. Understand your wants and needs, as well as those you let
close. Disdain those who shield this information from you.

### Study the Situation in East Germany

The self-interest of others will be weaponized against America. You
can bet on that. Study up on East Germany. In recent history, East
Germany represents what is probably the most similar situation to our
own right now.

### The American Economy is What Matters Right Now, Above All Else.

Remember, what matters most right now is the American and global
economy in the 21st century. Regardless of what some foreign influence
tries to convince you, nothing else matters for America or for
Europe. If we lose influence, we're not just going to be gagged, we're
going to be strapped down. Almost nothing else matters besides
securing our future for the rest of the century. As much as I hated
the Project for a New American Century in my more liberal college
days, those assholes were thinking ahead.

### Intellectual Property is the Key to the Global Economy Until 2050

Whats the key to security in the global economy? Intellectual property
and ensuring that international agreements are held. Lose either one
and it's done. What's China think about intellectual property, laws
relevant to it or international rule of law for that matter? For the
past fifty years, they haven't given a shit about any of it, so long
as their actiosn don't cost them too much. That's why they didn't care
so much about violating copyright law, but they didn't sell
internationally.

However -- and I don't want to seem to be derogatory here but it's
kinda true -- China just doesn't give a shit about norms and rule of
law with regard to international court rulings, patent, copyright,
trademark or trade secrets. They don't care about international rule
of law in general. To me, that's scary. That is terrifying. That gives
me nightmares.

### Stand Up for International Cooperation and Rule of Law

They will, however, follow those rulings insofar as they either (1)
line up with Chinese P.R.C. interests (e.g. they win a case at the
Hague) or (2) it just costs more value with regard to Chinese
interests than it adds. That's what scares the shit out of me. I fear
countries and leaders like this because the minute things spiral out
of control and the situation flips, that tendancy will not only
continue, the violations of international norms will exponentiate.

Stalin might be the precise worst example of someone who just didn't
give a shit about agreements he made or shit he said. The only thing
that mattered was his psychopathic tendency to get what he needed at
that moment to help him in the next moment. What he said at Yalta
didn't matter and you'd have to be batshit insane to think that
Churchill or Roosevelt actually bought that bullshit. What he said in
1945 didn't matter in 1950. That psychopath was informing North Korea
with military movements of American forces in the region because he
knew where the situation would lead. He knew that insofar as long as
he had our trust, he could continue to rake in the chips he'd need to
get the things he needed in the end.

China's indifference to international rule of law or adherence to
foreign policy agreements doesn't even approach that of Stalin, so
that's not a great example. But if it suddenly became worse, it would
absolutely begin to register on the Stalin scale of state-psychopathy.

### External Interest Never Accurately Represents Internal Interest

Remember, this is external interest that is compelling Americans to
act against themselves. These are our enemies and not our
friends. Look what happened to me and ask: what would you do? If it
was you? Your friend? Your son or daughter? How would you react?

Again: this is an external interest. No internal interest would
essentially place ankle-weights on major contributors to the US
economy. The things that tech companies are forced to comply with are
absolutely not in line with American economic interests. They want to
control us and restrain us, first and foremost. They want their job to
be easy, which is why it's necessary to blindfold the average
American.

Make no mistake, they don't give a shit about how America performs in
the world economy! And in fact, communism and hard-lin leftist assault
the right to property with a religious level of zeal, primarily to
stifle competition to their own agenda. Because when people acquire
property and wealth, they gain a foothold and can influence other
people. So, therefore, for the same reason, a foreign interest
motivated by communist ideas won't want America to obtain the same
foothold to fight back!!

Ain't that some shit?!

### If You Knowingly Aid the Enemy Right Now, You Are A Traitor

*TRAITORS ARE TRAITORS!* If you are knowingly helping some external
interest overtake America, you are a fucking traitor. Depending on
your level of complicity, you should be shot by a firing squad. They
will contort your understanding of the situation and try to convince
you that their goals are the same with the people of America. They're
not. An external force conducting a high level of economic,
information and psychological warfare doesn't give a shit about
America. They want to quickly take away our guns, figuratively and
literally. That's it.

### Americans' Declawed for Externally Motivated Domination

They want to declaw us. They want to turn American's against each
other to distract our energy. That will make us withdraw our energy in
applied foreign policy abroad. Whatever it is: economic issues, ethnic
tensions, a movement from local Americans to fight an American
Stasi. It doesn't matter. If it keeps our focus at home, "they"
steadily make gains abroad.

### Stop This Racist Bullshit. It's Going to Cripple America

This is why American needs to put away that dumbass, divisive racist
bullshit and unite. We need to unite as one because if we don't we're
going to get our ass kicked abroad. And then nothing will matter and,
if racist bullshit prevented us from addressing international issues,
then after American influence collapses, you can bet that racist
bullshit will keep us there. So we need to stop it. Right now. And you
can bet that those same influences that are hurting America are going
to try to egg it on. So watch out for that shit. This is a battle of
wits and, since the end of WW2, Americans just have no fucking clue
what it means to be the Underdog. And it shows.

And you can see that we've had a dialogue on it on racism. Both sides
have made gains in this dialogue and experiment over the past two
years: both the side representing interests of minorities and -- no
not the side representing racists, fuck those guys -- the side
representing people who are tired of the race card being used to
control the Overton Window to stagnated debate on internal and
external politics. I am so tired of having the race card thrown at me
for what are simply political purposes. IMO, such behavior shows
disgusting disregard of what is a critically sensitive issue.

### If You Advocate Racism...

#### Have You Actually Considered How That Would Play Out?

No, I really want to know. What are your ideas? What do you think
America should look like in 10 or 50 years? How would your beliefs
actually help people if they were widespread?

For the racists out there who would advocate for the implementation of
such policies ... have you even pictured what that would look like? It
doesn't make sense and actually represents a broken, misinformed,
almost schizophrenic view of domestic and international policy. What
are you going to do, reimplement Jim Crow and Segregation? How's that
going to work out? A person like this forgets certain economic
realities ... no one's going to want to trade with you or help you.

### For the Social Justice Warriors...

I empathize with your mission, but have you considered that it's
really not your battle? It's great when people stand up for others,
but when is it enough? When is it too much? Are you so sure that the
monsters you're fighting are real? Could it be possible that you're
wrong? What if you are duped into irreparably damage someone's life on
the basis of fighting for social justice, but it turns out that person
couldn't be further from a racist? What if some foreign political
force was pushing America to fight itself, so that we'd be too tied
down with social problems at home, we'd lose a ton of ground in
foreign policy?

When you strike out at someone for being racist, how can you actually
be sure? Did you ever bother to verify? Did someone tell you? Did you
see a social media post? When you lashed out at them, how did your
actions affect the situation? Did you ameliorate some tension in that
environment? Did you protect someone? Did the racist change his
beliefs? Or did you even bother to verify what that person's beliefs
were, before or after you intervened? What if that person got the
wrong impression of the situation and your interference drove them to
seek comfort with a group of people that would make them more racist?
How does that help racial and ethnic issues at all? How were other
people in the situation involved?

### Were You Standing Up For Someone? Or Your Personal Agenda?

One problem I have with social justice warriors, in my personal
experiences, they **used** racism to advance some other agenda, often
political or just to help isolate me at work. If I could prove that
happened and they were motivated in that way, how would you consider
that persons actions then? Is that ethical to use such a divisive
emotional issue? Now, what if I told you that these people in my
personal experiences were mostly white? And, what if I told you that
they never overtly asked me anything? And that the deceived the people
around me and handled everything mostly behind my back? I never had
the chance to set things right. In the long term, on a social scale,
how does this advance racial issues? That would seem to exacerbate
them! And it makes me sick! That makes me want to puke!

And what people on the left don't understand is that the people they
are vehemently demeaning as racists don't actually want that... for the
most part. Yes, there are some idiots who might actually want
that. What people on the left also forget is that there really are
nations that intend America harm in a very serious way. And by
clamping down the Overton Window, you have basically amputated
America's ability to protect itself from what are nation-to-nation
issues, not racist issues.

### Open Up the Debate and Overton Window

Leftists have controlled the "lexicon" of rhetorical arguments you're
allowed to use in any debate on any issues for quite some time. It
stems from the tendancy of the Ivy League and academia to be:

#### (1) Too smart for their own good and not wise enough to understand why things are often better off left alone.

#### (2) And, in the case of the Ivy League, smart enough to enumerate all possible arguments to understand how to deconstruct arguments that are counter to the attainment of ... uhhh ... the NWO's master plan.

Of course, I am skeptical of the people out there constantly warning
of the Illuminati and NWO. I mean, yes that *kinda* is a real thing,
but from what I've seen (1) the effort to fight it is often more of an
effort to distract those who would try to stop it and (2) some of
the goals of the "NWO" aren't actually that bad, when taken in the
proper context. Anyways...... moving on.

# $15 Minimum Wage?

Controlling considered statements and acceptable conclusions for
arguments basically gives these neo-Bolsheviks carte blanche to win
any debate. Doing so allows them to motivate Americans to fanatically
pursue policies which are actually detrimental to our long-term
interests. $15 minimum wage is a great example of a policy with a
particular value (fifteen dollars) that would extinguish small
business and trigger downstream consequences in the American economy.

At my first real job, I started as an intern making minimum wage when
it was less than `$7.00/hr`. I didn't blink at the pay rate because I
knew the experience far outweighed it. And I've learned there's wisdom
in achieving goals like higher payrates a step at a time. If I had
dramatically increased my pay rate or salary and topped out, what
would keep me working for self-improvement?

### Why Should A Sixteen Year Old Dropout Be Able to Outsave A Teacher?

If a 30 year old teacher with student loans makes as much money as a
sixteen year-old who drops out to work sixty hours a week, something
is very wrong with the economy! Yet, a teacher works more than `500
hrs/quarter` and perhaps up to `600 hrs`. For an average salary of
around `$45,000`. A 16 year-old could drop out and work full-time for
`$15/hr` and `500 hrs/quarter` to make around `$30,000`, but it's
conceiveable that anyone in the workforce could make around `$40,000`
by working about `60 hrs/wk`. What motivates a disinterested student
to stay in school? What motivates a student to go to college when the
benefits don't outweigh the costs?

### Americans Face Problems Driven By Out of Control Prices

The real economic problem here isn't that the minimum wage is too low.
It's that prices and costs are way too high for many products, but
especially the services Americans have come to know and love. How many
monthly bills do you have now? How many did you have five years ago?
If you can't answer that question because you weren't working at that
age, then you honestly don't have much to complain about. Sorry to be
an asshole, but that's life.

How many monthly bills were you paying ten years ago? Twenty years? If
you were working forty or sixty hours a week at minimum wage, what
percentage were your monthly services, compared to your wages after
taxes? Today, people making minimum wages will have almost nothing
left after rent, phone, car, insurance, health, internet, tv, online
subscriptions, probation fees, electric, heat, and others, but how
many of those bills existed in the Nineties? The Eighties? The
Sixties?

However, raising the minimum wage is just a fact of life. Fifteen
Dollars? Hell fucking no that is borderline criminal, negligent,
insane or all of the above. A suggestion that numbs pain now, but
causes significant damage in the long run. It's like a questionable
doctor giving the high school quarterback with a slipped disc a
prescription for oxycontin the night before the big game, sayin
"You're fine! Take as many of these as you need 'til you feel dizzy
and you go out there and win that game, son." and then smackin him on
the ass on the way out of the office. If that's his doctor's idea of
treatment, that guy needs a new one.

### It Will Strain Many Small Businesses to the Breaking Point

With all due respect to Bernie Sanders as someone who truly cares
about issues that are hurting millions of American's out there, the
$15 minimum wage was a social media hack to gain support and quickly
build a movement early on. Such a number would shutter so many small
businesses and place a massive incentive for corporations to automate
away all of the jobs those people had, all while destroying options
for businesses to structure incentivization and the motivation for
people to go to college. What's the answer, then? Lower the costs and
prices of services and products in America that leave people in
poverty. Why doesn't welfare help reduce rates of poverty? That's a
really good question to ask if you are in favor of a major increase to
minimum wage

# How Could This Happen Here?

Every day I think I've solved the puzzle to the American media circus,
I find out there's more. I'm starting to feel tired and I don't really
know why. I've felt like I've been surreptitiously medicated off and
on for a long time, but I don't think that's it now. I really don't
know what's wrong, but every day I discover something new, but
terrible.

The first twenty years of my life, I was intentionally sheltered, so
that I wouldn't know what to want in life and I didn't develop. The
next ten years was rough. I was passionate about my rights and other
issues, so I wanted to stand up for them, but no one really clued me
in. So the isolation from license suspensions gave way to outright
psychological torture with a budget. Now I'm worried that something's
really wrong with my health, but no one cares. Every encounter I have
with the people closest to me always tends towards negative and I am
never permitted to have the experiences I need to develop, as someone
with Aspergers who missed out for the first two decades. Then, I'm
made to feel like it's my fault and it's really not. And they
deconstructed my psychology, to use it against me.

*What Hippocratic Oath?!*

###

For so long, no one would listen to me. I only pieced it together when
I realized how many psychological and sociological variables needed to
be tightly controlled to create this perfect storm and then imagined
how unlikely that would be. Never allowed to have specific types of
experiences; always surrounded by people who mislead me in very cruel
ways; always led to believe it was my fault; never given so much as a
pat on the back. Mostly, everyone around me knew and if I was lucky
they were nice, but it's like these assholes gamified it! They made
workplace mobbing and general bullying into a game where if you didn't
score enough points by publicly invoking emotional pain, you might be
next! It's so fucking sick and now it's undeniably rampant at a time
when the US is closer than ever to being caught. My experience seems
to be rare. Somewhere between one in a million or one in a thousand,
but it's amazing how, even though I fled from city to city, the people
who coordinated this? THEY WERE ALWAYS THERE WAITING. It couldn't have
been that rare.

Then, when I blogged about all the workplace bullying and mobbing
techniques they used on me, my friends and family jumped down my
throat! Writing about it was the only thing that helped me move on
because I no longer had to waste my breath talking about it for hours,
just to have the friends who listened abruptly become aloof. And
that's part of it: the time I spent ruminating on it or talking about
it to other people! GODDAMIT! People I know who were involved they
would let me waste my breath, completely aware of what was happening,
just to drain my time, as if they got points for riling me up.

#### *Those who were complicit* who would listen could only say:

#### &#x2605; Just ignore it next time...

#### &#x2605; Oh, you're just paranoid!

#### &#x2605; I think something is wrong with you!

#### &#x2605; Just forget about it. Don't play their games!

#### &#x2605; If it happens more than once, it's you, silly!

No one believed me. When I wrote all the specific and general things
these people did to me, I could simply point to that blog. I wrote
17,000 words in Feb 2015. Instantly, those people who were complicit?
They jumped down my throat, saying "David, aren't you trying to get a
job?! You'll never get a job! DAVID, YOU HAVE TO DELETE THAT!"

Turns out, it's impossible for those exact people to not know. I'm
in the middle of writing some pieces on how everything affected my
psychology and sociology. In particular, I can show how those around
me chose the wrong way to handle my issues throughout my entire life,
but the first 20 years? That's forgiveable. These last five years?
That's going to be a lot harder, but I know they wouldn't do it if
they weren't forced to.

The reason they wanted me to delete it? I basically wrote a handbook
for the occult psychology used for CIA torture programs. This is
seriously dark shit, but not much worse than what you see in 48 Laws
of Power. Some of what I wrote was far more concise and complete
documentation than anything else out there. People have insinuated
that information like my writing is classified and that even my
memories could be classified because I am one of the few people
resilient enough to withstand this stuff without committing suicide or
whatever. I don't know what happens to the people that go through
this.

### These Sadistic Sociopaths Had A Budget!

Even though I have PTSD, I'm treated as though if someone undid the
negative things they did to screw with me, that it would be
counterproductive to the way they've spent their funds. Like speaking
to a therapist that might actually help me would undo years of work &
risk, not to mention millions in budget. Then they gaslight me to make
me feel like I'm crazy and I've been jerked around so much, there's
almost nothing left. If I work somewhere, there has to be someone
there who's approved to be my "handler" and this person effectively
mismanages me into failure. If I managed to get a job where there
wasn't a handler, I fill out my I-9 form, DHS is immediately notified
and people in my destination receive *Community Notifications*, which
is a term I've heard aloud several times, early on in the workplace. I
thought I was tuned in to the right information and stayed clued in to
these potential rights abuses, but nothing's farther from the truth!
Every thing makes more sense looking back. Now I see the key phrases
and I can place the the procedures and remember the acronyms, almost
eidetically.

### This Psychological Torture Is Everywhere Now and It's Part of Something Else

Whatever happened, it's increased exponentially within the past three
years and year. I wish I could leave this soul-sucking Hell hole. It's
everywhere now and it's part of something bigger. Whoever is doing
this to America, they're really fucking up a lot of people's lives and
causing a lot of damage, as far as I can see. And it's being done in
such a way that lashes out at anyone who dares question things. Social
media is a distraction at best, at this point!  CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS,
NBC and sometimes even Fox ... it looks like anyone who asks real
questions loses their job. BTW, I'm not so predispositioned to believe
the right is always right. However, in our country's current
nightmare, they are right on it. Yet, they still aren't asking many
more questions than anyone else.

### Social Media Is Nothing More Than An Echo Chamber

#### And Somebody Handed Out Megaphones to the Retarded Parrots

Thanks a lot, by the way. For paying out SEO and Social Media
optimization to basically hand all these idiots under foreign
influence a bunch of megaphones.  Y'all gave megaphones ... to those
people? Social Media, and the news as well, is like a bunch of retarded parrots
right now. It's like you're only allowed to make statements that
adhere to a predetermined list of acceptable rhetoric. And somewhere
out there, there's a really heavy hand and if you make people think:
that heavy hand is going to knock you the fuck out. Then they're going
to threaten your family and threaten tactics like the Mafia might use
to pummel down on the guy who won't pay protection money.

### Even the Mafia Polices Itself

I really gotta slow my roll here, 'cause I'm givin the Mafia a bad
Someone once told me "David, the government's like the Mafia. No, You
don't get it, the government is really like the Mafia." And everytime
I think I understand what they meant, I find out a couple years down
the road just how right they were.

Here's the deal though: even the Mafia has to keep itself in check
because the government is supposed to be the law. The Mafia will
impose constraints on it's behavior, so it doesn't end up with its
back against the wall like it was in Italy in the 80's and 90's: don't
fuck with people who aren't in the game; don't use violence as a
message if everyone's going to see it; don't fuck with the government
unless they fuck with you; yada, yada.

Well, who's watching the watchers? If even organized crime policies
itself to an extent, in fear of the government, then who deals with
corruption in the government when it starts dispensing retribution
like the Mafia? The answer lies in the Social Contract. The people
deal with it. And in America, our government is for the people, by the
people.

### Technology Throws the Social Contract's Validity into Question

However, in the 21st century, tyrrany has one major trick up its
sleeve that it didn't have in the 20th century: technology. This tool
threatens the underpinnings and essence of John Locke's Social
Contract. If America falls to tyranny, the world may never recover. If
we really need something like martial law, there better be a good
reason and there better be some mechanism built in that lets us end it
when its appropriate. And it would appear that, if we are descending
into tyranny, that is absolutely not the case because it really looks
like somebody's got a lot of organizations by the balls.

### The Collateral Damage is Immeasureable

In the process of doing clamping down and expending God knows how much
money doing it, they managed to make you believe it's your fault, all
while shielding the American Public from ever questioning whether this
could happen to someone. They will methodically and mathematically
ruin your life by constraining your social network and turning those
few social nodes you do have against you. And if those nodes don't
cooperate -- your best friends or closest family members -- well,
they'll be lucky to avoid getting on the shit list too. And if they do
actively, intentionally resist your treatment or help you in any way,
they better understand that they're going to be on that shit list.

### So You Have Been Socially Nullified.

#### Nothing You Say Has Any Consequence

They wreck the finances, the mind and the social relations of anyone
this happens to, by the way. You can compile a list of victims by
looking at LinkedIn, Facebook, etc. and datamining that in context
with financial information. So, someone who should be making a ton of
money, but isn't and has social connections so minimalized, you'd
think they had a mental illness? *THAT GUY IS A VICTIM OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE.* Why the minimalized social network? *THEY
DON'T WON'T OTHER PEOPLE TO HEAR ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO THE PEOPLE ON
THE SHIT LIST.*

### So You Have Been Psychologically Nullified

#### Your mental capability and desire to resist has been extinguished.

Your mind has been declawed. They do this intentionally. They look at
your life in terms of Maslov's Hierarchy of needs and they ruin it
from the top down to destroy your will to fight and they ruin it from
the bottom up to destroy your capability to fight. They minimalize
your social connections and make you a major drag on the people around
you, so they hate your dependence. They deceive the few people you
might have left and coerce them to turn them against you.

They have interacted with the APA and paid a few with questionable
morals to assess you, to assist in interactions with you, to analyze
said interactions with you. They will methodically deconstruct your
mind to the point where you are lucky if you don't end up committing
suicide. They want you to think that it's your fault to. They want
everyone around you to believe that it's your fault.

And most importantly, they want to destroy your will to fight back. If
possible, they'd like to induce Stockholm Syndrome. It's not always
possible because, again, you've got that bag on your head. There are
some people who aren't willing to become best buddies with their
torturers if specific things aren't articulated in very explicit, very
certain terms. I was one of those people, who refused to sign on the
dotted line with my emotional abusers. I didn't want to extend further
control to these assholes if it meant that I was agreeing to terms I
never understood, just because they dangled something in front of my
face, while never actually intending to give it to me.

It's like trying to haggle with a fucking palm reader or fortune
teller. Really? These people want to haggle while never using
articulate language because that would expand their own vulnerability
in the situation. They will not hesitate to listen in to your
conversations illegally in order to use suggestion and indirectly
refer to key phrases. It's all so they can get what they want and
never ever deliver on what you wanted ... because they never actually
even said that shit, you idiot. It was never written down.

You just sold your soul to be reduced to a former version of yourself
while they use weaponized psychology against you so that you chase
some half-assed pipedream they deluded you into thinking you might
actually get. They won't ever deliver on something like that. Why?
Because if they did, you'd stop chasing that and it makes it harder to
control you. The goal is control. If they give you what you want,
without strings, they lose control. You can always be sure that this
party will NEVER do anything that relinquishes control. In every
situation, you can fucking bet on it. You could set your watch by it.

### So You Have Been Financially Nullified

#### You Have No Options to Defend Yourself or to Run.

Why do you think they sap the finances of anyone they subdue via
psychological torture? *BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT YOU TO RUN TO ANOTHER
COUNTRY AND FIND OUT HOW MUCH YOUR LIFE CHANGES WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE
TO DEAL WITH THIS SHIT.* They don't want you to inform people from
other countries about what's happening. Why? Because other countries
wouldn't sit back and watch this shit happen?

### So You've Been Socially, Psychologically and Financially Ruined...

... What's left? Who the fuck knows, but if you're not out there
scoring points and gaining ground for them, you're useless. The truth
is that you never mattered.  What matters is helping them extend this
CIA MKUltra experiment that escaped the lab. They want you to wire
together and string up another puppet. That's all. It's like someone
crossed MKUltra with a Ponzi scheme and called it Guantanamo, then
they claimed it was for national security and, hell, why not call it a
religion too.

# OPM Triggered a Septic Crisis

Personally, I can't figure out what the hell happened in the
world. All I know is that I *allegedly* had a conversation with
someone who, amidst many sketchy questions, also asked *verbatim*:

> What is the worst thing that could happen to the United States?

Because of my tendency to think this person was "my team" and to
believe this person knew the ins and outs of the game, I thought they
wanted to source me like the Red Cell author Mark Henshaw. So, almost
without hesitation, I told them: whatever institution runs clearance
for the United States, hack that shit and you run the game. I didn't
know what the OPM was. We looked that up on wikipedia. This was in
2013.

### Beware the Military-Industrial Complex

All I knew was that I had gotten fired from several jobs and, for some
of them, it seemed it was because I couldn't pass a clearance
screening. After all, those military & United States Army types that I
had problems with ... they seemed to have pushed me out of my job and
ruined my life. And when I worked at CCS, they had recently funded a
startup that would provide protection for the electric grid...

### Steve Jobs, the Deadhead With a Top Secret Clearance

So I had looked up the docs and process on clearance to understand
that process. Could I qualify? Well, according to the FBI, I had
smoked weed and told people about it more than seven times, so
... NOPE. Other than that, I would have though. And Steve Jobs did
acid and he got a clearance. After subsequently reading an article
Gawker linked to that mentioned it would soon become hard to
obtain/keep a job in America without being capable of obtaining Secret
or Top Secret, I realized what a major vulnerability this was for
America.

### They Blinded Themselves With Their Own Smear Campaign

How could some two-pence loser who was so imcompetent he couldn't hold
a job able to pinpoint the single largest vulnerability in the United
States Government? Because this ostracized, pathetic excuse for an
American understood logistics and bureaucratic largess. That's
why. The problem is that the government, in an ongoing attempt to ruin
my life justified it's actions by claiming I was dangerous at best
and, worse, I was incompetent. The left hand wasn't aware of the right
hand's interactions and someone blinded the rest of it's
organizations. They justified their actions that prevented/interfered
with employment and ruined my life by saying I was a threat and that I
was worthless anyways.

The truth is, they couldn't have been more wrong. I have terrible
short-term memory, but I'm a genius on par with Einstein, though I've
accomplished absolutely nothing. No one bothered to help me grow that
part of myself and about 5-10 years, there has been a significant
attempt at ensuring that no one ever did! And now they can hide
neither my stellar luminosity nor their bloodlust to turn my life into
an example nor all the collateral damage in which they are 1000 times
more accountable.

### Here's My Argument, in a Nutshell

#### &#x2605; They worked very hard to plan this before 2013

#### &#x2605; They created this and have worked very hard to keep it in motion

#### &#x2605; They continually persued action when they could have ended it at any time;

#### &#x2605; They funded action through a dozen different government institutions

#### &#x2605; I have no money and I've made less than $3000 in 2015 and 2016

#### &#x2605; They lied to themselves and blinded themselves with a decade long smear campaign

#### &#x2605; They manipulated investigations and records to cover their tracks

#### &#x2605; They didn't have an endgame for this particular game-state

#### &#x2605; They got caught wanting to use me as a scapegoat

#### &#x2605; They got caught approaching me to use me as a double to rally a racist movement they could then justify in quashing, among many other very questionable things.

#### &#x2605; They've been lying. I've been trying my best to be honest. With both myself and any others.

#### &#x2605; They've micromanaged my medical care, although I'm currently happy with my doctors

#### &#x2605; Someone has occasionally swapped out my prescriptions, AFAIK

#### &#x2605; I have been warned about compounding pharmacies

#### &#x2605; I have been drugged without my knowledge, occasionally

#### &#x2605; It would appear that I may be involved in human medical testing of psychological treatment, drugs, etc. without my knowledge or approval ... and possibly even surgery.

#### &#x2605; Unconscious indications from real friends and from family would indicate that they have been gagged and can't associate with me or do anything that might help me out: in my personal life, in my mental health situation, in my social life, in my professional life.

#### &#x2605; It would appear that people have been gagged with National Security "Letters" whatever the fuck those things actually are. I very seriously doubt that if you got a National Security Letter, it would arrive in the mail as a certified letter ... or leave any physical evidence.

#### &#x2605; Any evidence in my favor is suppressed

#### &#x2605; The bureaucracy is abused in their favor and I still question whether I'm crazy for thinking there is any "court case" happening.

#### &#x2605; So do my "friends" & family. Friends is in quotes because they micromanage my social network to reduce exposure of information that might be used in my own defense and to exert near-total control of my psychological state

#### &#x2605; They actively interfere actively & passively with the function of online social networking algorithms to reduce exposure there

#### &#x2605; They are intimately aware of information I have revealed to "friends" in confidence or typed into files on my computer which I have never spoken aloud or have spoken aloud, alone in my own home

#### &#x2605; They use such information against me to encourage me to "end" any attempt to understand what is happening to me. (e.g. to understand why my own family treats me like shit) or to stand up for myself

#### &#x2605; They attempt to silence me by leveraging their control of my social network to indirectly lead me into assuming a myriad of fallacious self-conflicting beliefs about my situation. The information they have projected to me constructs cover story that invalidates itself a thousand times over that looks like a retarded kid tried to solve a Sudoku puzzle. This impairs my own mental health situation, making things more volatile.

#### &#x2605; They are quite aware of the volatility of the situation. They try to hold me accountable for collateral damage when they could have attempted to correct this situation at any time.

#### &#x2605; Even though they are aware of the volatility of the situation and have indicated constant awareness of the current state of the situation, they still encourage people to poke me with a "ten-foot pole"

#### &#x2605; They employ "street theater" to push people away from me in social settings these are like contrived conversations that are either relevant to me, my current situation or to pushing people away from me. Yeh .... it's wierd, but apparently people really do get paid to do this shit.

#### &#x2605; They have control of and access to "agreements" that they won't let anyone else see. I don't understand what I agreed to and I don't think I ever signed anything.

This shit goes on and on and on. I'm being kind when I say this is a
dozen Watergates.

And they've given me several dozen "explanations" based on comments I
made to myself, of which they were aware of recordings. I know who's
involved with this ... basically, considering they are micromanaging
my social network, assume that anyone who is "allowed" to persist in
interacting with me is involved. It's really as simple as that. And
how secure is that? It's not, which speaks volumes to their intent
nullify me as a liability ....

### They Never Had an Endgame For This Game State

This is kind of what makes me feel justified in continued action to
push someone to admit what happened to me. There's no sunshine and
rainbows coming out this unicorn's butt. Their endgame consisted of
incapacitated me, however it happened. In 2013, I knowingly convinced
them that I was suicidal and that they could just push me to
suicide. LMAO. Yeh, that was fucked up but encouraged them to produce
volumes of evidence doing exactly what I had expected they were doing
in my life all along: psychologically torturing me to push me to
suicide.

# Ye Olde ROFL Copter

That observation, as well as many others things I've seen. "They"
never, ever had a very nice endgame planned. Again, whoever "they" is
... there are several factions involved in this, at odds with each
other. Notice the attractiveness of those options below. They sound
super fun don't they?

#### Other endgames include: subdued and gagged through coercion, complete subversion, suicide, "suicide", auto accident, mental incapacitation via psychological means, mental incapacitation through neurological or pharmaceutical means, some other physical incapacitation, cancer, death in general...

None of them sound appealing to someone who earnestly believes that,
over the course of a decade, he got mugged on a weekly basis for a
grand total of ten billion dollars. And for someone who seems to have
anonymously contributed to society in a myriad of ways via some
serendipitous distributed inellectual property attack and hasn't
earned a dollar for any of it. Sorry. None of those work.

### So Have You Tried ... ?

> You should try .... hmmmm gotta think real hard about this ... have
> you tried fucking fixing what you broke? No?

Oh, that's right, you can't interact in a way that would indicate
you were involved. I forgot. So I guess that means you just don't
have to do shit. Well, none of the emotional trauma or protracted
psychological torture or career assassination matters then. Jeez.
Forget it. All that collateral damage? I guess there was just
nothing you could have done then, huh?

### It'll All Come Out in the Wash

Oh, well, it'll fix itself right?
None of that matters then, huh?
I guess nothing that happened to me matters. Or America or any
other American who's been in my own shoes.

Eventually you can fix this. I believe in you, 'Murkinya .. woops!
I mean, "America" ...

# Ohh, I Have An Idea!

### You Should Invent a Disease and a Pattern Language!

Just invent a pattern language that maps to real current event. Like a
disease or something. Oh, or Qg'daphie Duck! Yeh, whatever his fucking
name is. Fuck that guy anyway! How's a major media organization like
CNN or some shit supposed to keep that straight.

This will let you keep your citizens in a state of constant confusion.
You know, so in case any of them get real wise and try to "ask
questions" or "stand up for their rights" -- well, they won't
understand what's happening. And fuck 'em, right? Who are they
anyways?

Well, according to current events from 2010 through 2016, those people
who didn't understand were the middle class and upper middle class and
small business owners. Ya know, the same ones the IRS was robbing
blind and blocking with politically motivated tax audits. Yeh, those
rich fuckers. The ones that pay the majority of the taxes. Those
guys. Fuck 'em. Especially the libertarians! Those guys! Asking all
them pesky questions about the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights. They're so smart and patriotic and they don't want to be
dependent on the government! Ugh they make me so mad!!!

All of this corrosive, counter-productive activity spiked around 2011
around the same time the Occupy protests started going down. That's
when I really noticed it happening and first could ever associate it
with the left. I believe that, in my own life, the seeds were sown in
2010 at the latest. It seems like the continuation and growth of
secret repressive reprogramming programs in this country that could be
traced back to the early Cold War. I don't know what's driving it out
of nowhere, but it's getting a little hard to ignore and I think
there's some runaway faction in the left that seized control of the
totalitarian machinery created by Bush in response to 9/11.

Back to that disease. It's probably going to have to be a real thing
though. Like ... I donno, let's just say Zika. Now the interesting
thing about Zika is that it didn't occur until after we went down to
South America, played God and tried to destroy the population of
Dengue fever carrying mosquitoes...

**This is your friendly reminder that, as much as it seems that I have
leaked, I really do have cards to play until the end of time. So at
any time, feel free to acknowledge what you did to me, using my real
name, and make it publicly known at least some of the things you did
to me and then STOP fucking with the lives of me, my friends, family
members and local community. I know what you're doing.**

... moving on. We destroyed that population of mostquitoes with
genetic engineering. The ones with the hemorrhagic fever dengue,
that's pronounced DEN-GAY. Den, as pronounced in Snoden. What
happened? This was a "power-vacuum" in the l33t speak of
mosquitologists. I warned in 2013 that we absolutely should not be
playing God by screwing around with the mosquito populations. I didn't
know what happened, but that's what happened. The evidence is right
there in the DNA of the mosquito population. No more dengue fever. Now
we have prevelant Zika and people don't die as much so that's
nice. The problem is, well, now their babies live on and suffer from
"intellectual disabilities" for the rest of their life.

Ok, that's bad. So it's unquestionable that no one would ... question
Zika right? Good! Then if we want to map a pattern language to it, we
can do that, just we did with Qdg'dfaffy D'fuck, whatever his fucking
name was. So, just like no one would question us running air raids on
Bengnhazi to topple a dictator, none of these meddlin' kids are gonna
ask questions when we propose duplicitous plans of attack on
Zika. Great! That means that we can treat a real disease in South
America and simultaneously treat a vaguely defined "mind-virus" in
America, repurposing the CDC to "treat" that.

How do you treat a mind-virus anyways? And isn't it interesting that
this occurs at precisely the time when nuclear medicine's most
world-changing applications are publicly becoming known: MRI's and
machine learning. Another interesting point: there's recently been a
ton of investment into nuclear medicine right here in the Roanoke
Valley, on the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars into Virginia
Tech's medical facilities here. As interested and forward thinking as
I am, you'd think I would have interfaced with someone in Roanoke on
MRI datamining. Nope. The closest I've come is talking to someone with
Virginia Tech's new Neuroscience program, whom my paranoid mind
immediately flagged as being involved with whoever's running this g4ng
st4lking and str3et th3atr3 on me.

Again, the smokescreen on news and social media is so thick, no one
else is seeing this coming. Everyone's so entertained with this joke
of an election that no one's asking questions about anything real. And
I can't see the forest for the trees here. Is this really going to be
good for America, in the end? Is this part of a concerted strategy on
our part? Or is it a power grab? Because, to me, it looks a lot closer
to a power grab: you can't ask questions; both sides seem to be aware
of things they aren't letting the public on to; both sides are acting
like it doesn't matter what they do now because they won't be
explaining it later on; people are encouraged to play a part in this
drama.

And if it's a power grab, then Zika would make a good cover for the
CDC to enforce policy on a virus of the mind. No, I'm not even
joking. And that's what Obama wants to do, allegedly. I've seen
articles that claim the CDC will begin treating "negative
information/facts" and "viral belief systems." And going back to
neurology, there have been tons of studys on implanting memories and
removing memories.

These studies scare the shit out of me, but they seem to be written
for pretty basic shit, but what if their capacity for neurological
manipulation is much greater than that? Can you imagine what damage
could be done if you could implant/suggest false memories that are
used to... I donno... compel someone to confess against themselves in
a FISA court case? Who would believe that person anyways?! And if it
doesn't matter whether someone would believe that person in the
future, when such technology must inevitably become public
... couldn't it be argued that whoever was doing that did not actually
plan on handling that scenario in the future? ... By collapsing the
system and initiating some tyrant's totalitarian wet drean?

#### Neurological Programs and Leveraging the Medical System to Attack Belief Systems

#### (1) We've exponentiated our capacity for neurological mapping & manipulation.

#### (2) There are rumors about leveraging the CDC to "medicate" beliefs.

#### (3) With greater neurological prowess and greater understanding of the nature of information, there will be a tendancy to view problems related to information & beliefs as actually being medical in nature, since medicine would have the ability to "treat" a person by adding or removing memories.

#### (4) We've seen that the CDC has grabbed more and more powers in this regard to attack diseases. If someone is planning to repurpose the CDC to be used in such a way, we would see lobbyists and congressmen pushing for extra powers to be given to the CDC.

#### (5) The next step is the legal redefinition of belief systems as a disease and they will utilize terrorism to justify this.

It's important to note that nationalizing medicine is required for
communism for a plethora of reasons. Firstmost, it promises the lower
classes that they'll no longer be burdened by their health. In a more
sinister way, it provides the government dominion over your body and
mind. Since the only way to seek treatment is through the government,
your health can be used as leverage against you, not unlike how
families a decade ago would be hesitant to quit an unfair job if would
risk losing health insurance. It's really something to think
about. There are no perfect systems.

Quite often, I get the feeling that the nominal leaders in our
government really have no idea what's happening. And if something like
this were to be rammed through that would certainly be the case. At
that point, our minds are nothing more than disk drives to these
people, who become like anti-virus software. Who would determine what
is a "valid" belief and what is a "dangerous" belief?

Someone with the logistic infrastructure to implement these programs
in secret would obviously tend to use them. Why else would they spend
so much time & money building it all out. So, if someone used powers
like this to fix their problems by rewriting someone's memories, then
could this same group of people have any real long-term vision? Does
absolute power actually give you the ability to envision utopia? Of
course, utopia doesn't exist, but simply having the power doesn't mean
that you know how to lead people or even where to lead them.

If these neurological procedures to toy with memory are possible,
call into question legal axioms that have held for thousands of
years. It's really dirty. You could find yourself accused of rape
without ever knowing about it by multiple witnesses who are
emotionally distraught from the pain they experienced. You could be
falsely accused and have your life flipped upside down and to these
people, it's all real. It's just as real as though it has actually
happened! This is all hypothetical of course, but science fiction's a
great way to stay on top of this stuff.

Who can believe what we see on Social Media or anywhere for that
matter. Newspapers are bankrupt and everything digital is ephemeral,
so whenever "this" all goes down, whatever "this" is, there will be no
trace... Obama wants to leverage the CDC to attack people who have
"Oppositional Defiant Disorder" or "Borderline Personality Disorder."
Now, remember, the latter was just added to the DSM a year or
so. *THEY CREATED A DIAGNOSIS FOR POLITICAL DISSiDENTS!*

... How much more Soviet-style and Cuban-style abuse of the "medical"
and "psychiatric" institutions do you need before you realize what's
going on here? Do you want to post a doctor for every neighborhood?
*THEY CHANGED THE DSM TO CREATE A DIAGNOSIS FOR POLITICAL DISSiDENTS!*
Who has the influence to do that?

Should we wait for these people to add a subtype of schizophrenia for
non-schizo patients, just like the Soviets did? I've gotta tell you,
with data-driven medicene and with the increasing power to map the
mind, that's just not going to work anymore! If you try to make up
psychiatric labels to harrass people, it's going to become real clear
as soon as you run data science on their MRI scans:

> This guy just don't have a connectopathy like scizophrenia.
> Nope. This guy's neural networks show that he has autism. This guy's
> neural networks show that ... well we have no idea. He's
> normal. There's nothing wrong with him at all. Oh, but *this* guy?
> His brain deviates so far from the norm in terms of neural damage
> that ... Jesus Christ! They chemically castrated his brain! Either
> that or he ate the brown acid at Woodstock. And it might have
> happened between the ages of 20 through 25.

### Neural Bitemark Analysis - Data Science on Nuclear Medicine

It's like reading tree rings, least before your brain and mind stop
developing. But even afterwards because your brain will display
characteristic signs of neural decay that will differ from place to
place in your brain. I don't know if that happened to me, but I'm
pretty sure the government has intentionally distributed bad drugs to
me from time to time. Regardless, it is fucking miraculous that my
brain is even able to function, at this point! I stay away from almost
everything except from pot because it's all terrible -- the time
spent, the damage done, the people everything.

### (predicting covert action)

And I'm telling you that that just so everyone knows ... I shouldn't
drop like a dead fly from a overdose any time soon. I've been trying
to think ahead of every possible cover story for my own death to
uhhh... pre-emptively minimize the possibility. And IMO that's what's
been keeping me alive.  Thinking ahead, understanding the
possibilities and understanding that, when a state-run institution
does something like that, they send signals a week or month ahead of
time, so not too many people ask questions when you "overdose" or "get
robbed with cocaine sprinkled on you" or "your what had you." Whatever
that may be. All I do is understand what's possible and watch for
people to say things that establish signals, especially in the minds
of the few people around me, and then I kinda know what to watch out
for. This paranoia has robbed me of what little there might have been
left in my life.

### (Carfentanyl)

- mention my tweets calling this out in Huntington

And all those people dying from carfentanyl?! Some schmuck in their
basement can't just create that stuff. Fentanyl is hard enough, if you
don't want law enforcement beating down your door because they're
pissed a handful of kids OD'd on dope. OK, well now there are people
out there dying from carfentanyl by the hundred. And I can tell you:
that's not normal. It runs counter to the business model and
motivations for drug dealers to stay low. Fentanyl is questionable at
best, but carfentanyl is a murder weapon. You can die breathing it in.

Junkies look out for each other because no one else does. You're the
lowest piece of shit in society because dope drives terrible crime
sprees. So, the second your friend dies of an overdose and your left
holding the bags, you're going to be warning all your friends before
the ambulance gets there. And that leaves behind a characteristic
messaging pattern that should emerge in Huntington and Cincinatti. If
those text messages aren't there for anyone who died, then someone may
have just gotten off of nearly two hundred state-driven murders.

###

Back to neural castration. Just like there are neuro-connectological
profiles specific to phenotypes, there are similar profiles that act
as fingerprints for chemical damage to the brain. And these profiles
my be read from the brains of people who've had mind-altering
transcranial magnetic stimulation. I've seen studies where they are
able to detect the presence of some weak "false memories" by data
mining fMRI responses.

### (warning that these people aren't planning on telling this story)

The major warning here is that these people are out there perpatratin'
and they mostly don't care how these crimes might be viewed by society
in a decade. That could mean a few things. For example, they don't
expect the people they're doing it to to figure it out and ask
questions. Or they don't understand how easily proveable some of these
things are with the technology of the 2020's. Or, my favorite, they
just don't care because it's part of a system-collapse or
civilization-collapse event and ain't nobody gonna know to ask
questions after it happens. A system-collapse would be something like
a worldwide tyrannical revolution, producing a new system where all
the old knowledge has been purged in a single generation and no one is
capable of asking questions because no one knows what happened and
every move they make online is monitored, so that any person asking
the right questions leading to the truth is killed very quickly.

These same people capable of orchestrating this through intelligence
agencies are so threatened by the internet and the freedom of all
information and the discovery of past sins that I fear some looney-bin
scenario like this might actually be possible. In the two years or so,
whenever I try to sound the alarm about things like this or about
other government shenanigans, that's when I feel the most
pressure. Before that, I never felt any pressure. The people I know
today were involved would simply egg me on.

### (i'm a scapegoat)

And now everyone wants to point at me and say "It's his fault! Yeh
fucking Shaggy over there!  The fucking pothead who keeps asking those
meddling questions. We keep taking everything from him and keeps
trying to get people to think! To use their brains!"

Eventually, I figure it out. My life is like an atrocious version of
that Steve Jobs quote. It's something like "All the random things that
happen in life don't make sense looking forward, but once you look
back, you can connect the dots and everything makes sense. Everything
was meaningful." I'm like the Steve Jobs of government fuckery. And
for every person who "made it" as far as I did, there are millions of
others, who either settled or were brainwashed or were driven insane
or had an "accident."

###

I would have cooperated with the government in an
investigation. *THERE ARE NO CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH I EVER SHOULD
HAVE BEEN PSYCHOLOGICALLY TORTURED*. They spent millions on this shit
and I'm not joking.  Considering I've been under a fucking microscope,
I thought I was being fairly cooperative and that contacting a
low-level FBI agent or making digital record of this was one of the
worst things I could do. I thought that, at best, it'd lead to me
getting harmed.  Furthermore, according to memories, which are on par
in reliability with the same memories that seem to have gotten me in
trouble, much of this was part of ... some complicated thing with many
aspects and objectives.

Basically ... well actually I can't really mention much of anything,
but I sure as hell wish that these pissants would piss off and move
on. Because continuing to poke and prod the volatile psychology that
you so meticulously engineered isn't going to make anything better.

# (OPM and its effects)

### Universal Blackmail

And they are blackmailing fucking everyone. Like they're the goddamn
mafia. But here's the deal with distributed and total blackmail
against your citizenry. Fucking everybody is gettin blackmailed!
Again, STAND UP FOR YOUR GODDAMN RIGHTS AND FORGIVE OTHERS OF THEIR
SINS BECAUSE THEY GETTIN BLACKMAILED JUST LIKE YOU ARE IF YOU HAVE
ANY INFLUENCE.

### Yup, They Got All the Bases! Every Single One of Them.

How can these Bolo's do this in the Age of the Internet? Because they
have total control of the communication infrastructure. They have
seized the means of communication. They have domination of telecom.
Any party that exerts control over telecom infrastructure has God-mode
on the internet. **Assume that SSL is broken and thus HTTPS is
broken. [JUST MAKE THAT ASSUMPTION](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/08/new-attack-steals-private-crypto-keys-by-corrupting-data-in-computer-memory/).**
This attack is pretty bad, but nowhere near some of the others we've
seen in the past few years.

Most sites don't even use SSL anymore. In my experience there are far
more sites who don't use SSL, than there were in 2010. Those sites
that don't are definitely definitely hopelessly broken. Assume that
any message you send on the internet can be blocked silently or
modified persistently.

### All Your Bases Have a Free Splinternet Connection

It is possible to Man-in-the-Middle anything with a customized
application server. Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, anything. They can
selectively divert traffic to these containers to effectively shard
usage and maintain persistently modifications applied to the data for
specific users. If you actually are a targeted individual, the
end-points for internet access will be modified in real time, so they
can limit the application of these kinds of God-mode exploits to only
the terminals you are in front of. These are theoretical exploits by
the way, but they are possible in theory. Far from practical, but they
are possible and it scares the shit out of me.

### Until the Government Gives Me Armed Ground Transport to Canada...

Then I am a refugee because they won't let me leave. Understanding
these exploits amoung other things is part of the reason why they'll
never, ever let me leave the United States. My intelligence is why
they say I'm dangerous, by the way. Not because of my intent, but
because of my intellectual capability with regard to understanding how
to fucking run shit in information warfare. And psychological warfare,
too. And economic warfare. They know it. They know I also know a lot
of other things which aren't really part of the official story.

#

And it turns out: the government regulates intelligence. You have to
have a brain license if your IQ is way to high...

### You Got A License For Them Math Problems, Boy?

Any violations here? Apparently, you get hung as a traitor or some
shit. Or they might claim they exposed you to just enough classified
information to try you in secret court until they figure out how to
kill you or shut you up. And that's interesting because, in my case,
no one ever told me to shut up. Ever! No one has ever directly said
anything to me to direct me to stop doing whatever TF it is that I'm
doing! Well how the hell is a kid with Asperger's supposed to know?!
You practically have to smack him in the face and give him an ice
bucket shower before you explain that:

> No. Do not learn X, Y, and Z. Your IQ is too high and the government
> can't give you a clearance. YOU ARE NOT ALLOWED!

And no one ever explained this either:

> People really don't appreciate the things you've been posting on
> Facebook since 2005. Yeh, the things about the NSA, government
> surveillance and the end of American Republic? Don't do that. You
> can't. You have to stop.

That's all someone had to say. Well, I was taught to value American
rights as though they were sacred. Jesus, how am I supposed to know
that, since 2001, we wiped our ass with the Bill of Rights as part of
an undeclared war on American citizens?

Usually, for nerds who are too smart for their own good, they'll just
strap you in with a real cushy job. You know, the works: big salary,
ping-pong balls and lots of other nerds clackin' away on their
keyboard. And, if you're lucky, you might even find yourself with a
hot wife. After all, you've been bred to be socially awkward, isolated
and to crave sex. So that you're easily controlled, if you're
male. It's also interesting that, as part of our social engineering,
many more men ended up in engineering than technology. Just an
interesting coincidence and nothing more.

### Don't You Know the Status Quo is Fine the Way It Is?

Too many Google queries for intelligence concepts, aspects of
conspiracies that are, as of yet, uncovered or mathematic theorums
that are prerequisites for breaking through the veil? You'll find a
white van is constantly parked outside your house or that you just so
happened to end up living in a van down by the river!

### Your Intelligence, No Matter How Developed Isn't A Unique Commodity

And make no mistake: the government and some powerful people just
don't give a shit about what intelligent people contribute to society
... apparently. In my experience, anyways. Heretofore, this is what
life has shown me. In fact, if you change too much at one time, it
makes it real hard for those people in power to stay in power. And
nobody likes that shit. Fuckin' nerds, with their pocket protectors
and their fucking goofy-ass glasses and awkward prosody. They're
always fucking things up -- those little twerps are "bad for
business!"

You'd think that any one with a high enough IQ knows that, while his
innovation might technically the equivalent of Zero Point Energy for
medicine, genomics, fusion, financial engineering, hacking or whatever
-- that it's bad for the existing business models out there. The
status quo is fine the way it is. We don't need to cure diseases!
What? We milk them. That's a teet! If we change things too fast, we
lose control and other people aren't intelligent enough to anticipate
the change in the resulting system. Yeh, this is really depressing and
I'm clearly the exception, not the rule ... but my life has become one
massive glaring, migrane-inducing exception.

Yes, we cheerlead innovation and change, but that's all for show!
Nobody cares. We want baby steps so the fat kids can keep up with the
pace. The people counting the money would rather keep you in
submission, so they can milk you! And if you break rank one too many
times, one of these rich pricks or government surveillance operators
is going take note and they're going to steal and/or control your
innovations. Why? Because they already have the patents and the
capital and you don't. So you better play by the rules and STICK WITH
THE PACK!

### [Welcome to Murkyatocracy. Population: Nikola Tesla and Alan Turing]()

Jesus, every one of those geeks thinks he's Nikola Tesla. Meritocracy?
HA! Try Murkyatocracy!

Well guess what! Turing "ate an apple laced with cyanide." While he
was alone. Tesla died under mysterious circumstances in 1943 and had
all of his property, intellectual and otherwise, confiscated by the
[Office of Alien Property Custodian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_of_Alien_Property_Custodian).

### Tesla's Property Was Seized By the OACP as a Traiter After His Death

An agency that, bizarrely, I have never heard of. I have scoured
Wikipedia since 2005 and never heard of it, amoung other recent trends
and diseases. OACP confiscates any and all property during wartime
from the enemy's cold dead rigor mortis grip. Yes, apparently Nikola
Tesla was an enemy of the state! Weird. I had never heard that. A
citizen for about 50 years, but an enemy. However, it was during WW2
and it does seem he was encoding his work in a way that only he would
understand. But ... seized for being a WW2 traitor? Turing was under
surveillance after WW2 for sympathizing with or spying for the
Soviets.

> See? Ain't not nobody's allowed to be smart no more! Nah, you need
> the blessing of the state! Don't be on them Quantum Information
> Theory vidyas now, ya hear? No sir, none of that Bioinformatics for
> you. Just don't think about it! And whatever you do, do not fucking
> solve an "unsolved" math problem. *YOU WOULD NOT BELIEVE WHAT WILL
> HAPPEN IF YOU EVEN GET CLOSE!* Just be a good boy and get a job
> at McDonalds. That brain's dangerous if it's loaded you know? Put
> the goddamn safety on and get that job at Best Buy. The Geek Squad
> needs people like you!!

^^^ Said no loving mother to her child, ever.

### OACP Was Somehow Involved in Anna Nicole Smith's USSC Cases

Apparently, OACP was involved in the
[Anna Nicole Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_v._Marshall)
Supreme Court
[cases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stern_v._Marshall). Yes, both of
them. There were two, in 2006 and 2011. And those bastards snatched up
all of her estate after she died from cardiac arrest.

### The Same OACP That Dismantled I.G. Farben and Other Nazi Corporations

OACP, the very same agency I've never heard of, was also involved in
seizing & redistributing the intellectual property & assets from the
Nazi's after WW2. Did America ever say "Thank You,
Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei"? Nope. They just took
all of that, like Wernher von Braun's rocket tech, and acted like they
did it themselves. Then they stuck all the rest of the Nazi's in "Area
51" wherever that is.

### After WW2 America Consumed the Nazi's in Anticipation of the Soviet Menace

For the Nazi's who posed a threat, the OSS determined they had all
information of value and killed them, probably orphaning any children
they may have had. Anyone who had value as an asset who could not be
killed without significantly threatening intelligence to aid America
in the assured conflict with Soviet Russia? They were weighed down
with so much blackmail and counterforce, we could be sure they'd never
do shit. And, we could count on it too, because at that point, we knew
we all hated Stalin as much as Hitler did. And nobody wanted to let
that grubby, drunk psychopathic bastard bury another body in Western
Europe.

Then America acted like nothing happened, while they beat the Soviets
over the head in the Cold War. And then they told America we were
lucky we didn't speak German. Because we had something. We had
acquired a lot of valuable assets and tech actually. Because if the
Germans were going to fold to either side, it'd be Western Europe. And
it seemed that Soviet Russia had no idea we had it. So we sure as shit
weren't gonna waste it, whatever it was.

###

The end of WW2 is very interesting, to say the least. I'm not
apologizing for the Nazi's. I'm just saying: if the Soviets acquired
access to everything like we did, we would have quickly lost the Cold
War. Stalin would've just kept on pushin' on, like he always set out
to do well before Hitler broke the
[Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molotov%E2%80%93Ribbentrop_Pact).

If Germany had been complacent, just to let the Soviets conquer and
absorb their country, its assets and its intellectual property, then
WW2 would have represented the annhilation democracy and freedom in
Europe. And very likely the world. Stalin would have gained a ton of
momentum with that move and everything would have been tipped in their
favor, while Germany still reeled from defeat in WW1 and sanctions
from the Treaty of Versaille. They had to pay back all that war debt!
For both sides! Whoa. Hitler was like "Just sit here, broke as hell,
with nothing to do but stand in line for soup and just let Stalin
scoop us up? Fuck that!" And ... well.. then terrible things happened.

# Who turned OACP On Again?!

OK, so if the OACP is being used and it's an agency that's turned on
during wartime, that means that someone turned it on again. Who did
that? Who fucking turned that thing on again and why doesn't America
know about it? The only other times it has been turned on is to
redistributed assets at the end of WW1 and WW2, so ... if it was used
in the "Anna Nicole Smith" court cases, why was it turned on? And
WTF?! Why would she have assets that couldn't be redistributed the way
the mafia normally redistributes them?! By force! Really? I mean
... really?!!

So... I guess we're at world war or something? News to me. I knew that
we I knew that we declared War on Terror in 2001, but I also realized
we declared War on Drugs in 1971. Before 2010, we were at war with
Iraq and Afganistan.
.

Actually, now that I look, it seems
that [OFAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Featured_content) has
the authority in the War on Terror.

- SDN's and I-9 notifications to track individuals across the country
  - coverage

- intellectual property theft via surveillance
  - if coordinated for political reasons could be incredibly powerful,
    esp in today's economy
  - basically the main driver for economics over the next decade is
    technology and thus, intellectual property
  - so if someone hijacked homeland security to steal this from "the
    other side" they could use it to secure an insurmountable position
    in the economy of tomorrow.
- i believe this happened to me, to some degree. I'm not sure how or
  who did it, but i do know that I've been under minor surveillance
  since
  2010. Early on, it was mostly indirect HUMINT and some SIGINT.
  - i think they were worried that, because of how I used technology,
    that since it was harder to surveil me, i deserved more attention.
  - for example, i have always refused to use Dropbox and maintain any
    connection to cloud storage on my laptops or mobile devices.
    - why? one reason is that if you're computer is authorized to
      write to cloud storage, it can become trivial to exfiltrate data
      from your computer
  - i think my statements on social media and IRL led them to believe
    I was a problem moreso than a threat. in fact, most of the people
    speaking out always knew what was coming. many of these people
    intentionally maintained a low profile and knew what to avoid
    saying.  They resisted DHS/FBI Minority Report radicalization
    operations, which were fairly rampant from 2008-2012. The FBI
    would identify someone and, via HUMINT, would seek to see if that
    person could be pushed to terrorist acts. Quickly thereafter, the
    incident would be paraded around as a victory against
    terrorism. It really makes you wonder because ...  why do that if
    there are real victories to be paraded around with terrorism. This
    practice could be justified in some ways, but is a really sketchy
    precedent to set.
- anyways, I always treated technology as though it was inherently
  insecure at all times. After 2011, if I had anything significantly
  profitable, i would write it down in analog on pencil and paper.
  - however, i really never expected to be robbed blind of profit and
    credit
  - while being subjected to psychological torture just to be held up
    as a scapegoat
  - that's insane. I would never have expected that to happen in
    america, but it did
  - and the degree to which the people around me act towards me?
    - it scares the fuck out of me.
  - people i know are scared. i can see the concern and fear in their
    eyes, but thy are afraid of getting marked themselves.
    - they approach out of concern, but are timid and afraid and do
      not want extended connection, especially in public.
  - and you're telling me the government can do all this,
    - but they can't even fix what happened? why? because they're
      afraid of getting caught red-handed? If this is provably
      happening to one of your most patriotic citizens ... wouldn't
      you try to stop it? Or correct it?
    - if someone wins a court case for bullying in school or sexual
      harassment, don't people usually seek to intervene? afterwards,
      depending on the severity and the certainty, don't people
      usually step in to help?

{% highlight "ruby" %}
//
//          ROFL:ROFL:LOL:ROFL:ROFL
//              _______||_________
//   L         /               [ O\
//  LOL========                |_|_\
//   L     B|O M B                  )
//        F    |____,-------¬______/
//       T //    }-OMGROCKET))
//      W // _______||_||_________/_/
//
{% endhighlight %}
