---
title: "American Limits on Freedom of Speech Include Intelligence"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics censorship"
headline: "Don't think too hard, especially about math. Math is scary."
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# But America Has Freedom of Speech!

In the past 15 years and since 1776, Americans had the freedom to say
mostly anything. Of course, you can't shout "Fire!" in a crowded
theater. Still, hidden to most, this freedom of speech was limited
intellectually.

### Don't Shout Fire in a Crowded Theater

There are just some things you're not supposed to know and some things
that are incredibly dangerous to say, regardless of their
truthiness. Those things include some equivalents of shouting "Fire!"
and causing a panic in the global economy. For the most part, it's
impossible to do this, but it's a great example of the kind of things
that will cause you to accumulate enemies in America.

### Don't Be Paranoid About CIA Operations

#### Especially Not If You're Going To Be Correct

Also, it's not a good idea to state details of otherwise unquestioned
CIA operations, mostly unknown to all but a few hundred thousand
people in the world. That's generally a bad idea! They suicided Gary
Webb for uncovering the cocaine connection in the Iran Contra
scandal. This is one place where I really incurred the wrath of the
feds.

In 2005, I was mostly parroting things I read on various alternative
news sites. Some of those things were false. In 2011 and 2012, I
learned enough *and interpolated enough* to be scared. The key there
is that I read between the lines and that I kept my fucking mouth
shut. What I saw? Holy shit! Yeh, I actually started keeping my
fucking mouth shut, for the most part. In 2013, I had learned enough
to begin unraveling and extrapolating things that are never spoken
aloud, even by those involved. However, if I hadn't kept my mouth
shut, they would have easily identified me. And in 2013, they did, but
they misread me because I had read one-too-many wikipedia pages on
the intelligence community and inferred a ton about their operations
and logistics.

# And Whatever You Do...

### DO NOT Go Solving Traditionally Unsolved Math Problems!

#### Or Write About Philosophy. They Also Hate That Shit.

Another example of a limit on free speech is mentioning implementation
of technologies which are supposed to be secret, like biotech,
gentech, neurotech, quantum computing and "quantum networking". I
don't know if quantum networking is practical, by the way. But this
one is a big NO NO. As in, do not think to hard about what is too far
outside of the content on TV.

#### Especially Math and Cryptography!!

If you have a boner for math and cryptography, keep that shit quiet! I
learned this the hard way. You will not believe how much trouble
you'll get in if you can't pass a clearance and you happen to stumble
on a theorum they already know about -- and you're not going to find
anything they don't know about without first crossing into a region of
knowledge in math, computer science and crypto that the NSA has
explored first. That's because any murky regions of math, etc that
they don't know about are all dependent on a few theorums that they do
know about. These are the "other" nuclear weapons: it's secret math
and they do not want to let this shit get out. Think I'm playing
around? Find an unpublicized means of predicting large primes and try
posting that on the internet. You'll get a knock on your door before
you can log into Medium to blog about it.

There are lots of secret technologies that DARPA and the Department of
Defense researches and understands a bit about, at least. However,
they are usually prototypical projects, either proof of concept or
expensive one-off implementations. They are almost never projects
produced at scale because that would be insecure and make the tech &
knowledge of it more available.

And these DoD people spend even more money than on research just
trying to keep this shit secret. They don't want people to even know
what they experiment with because then people might infer it is or
isn't possible just based on whether they pursued subsequent
projects. This is what infuriates me when our media reports that China
hacked our F-35 program, etc, etc, which oddly doesn't seem to be
happening as much as it used to. I guess that's a good thing.

### The Worst Thing You Can Do In America Is Become Too Intelligent!

#### Especially If You Flew Under The Radar Or They Can't Control You!

Perhaps the worst thing you can do with regards to free speech in
America is actually become too smart. That's right. That's worse than
all of the above. And truthfully, that is exactly what I did. I
accidentally uncovered an algorithm that is connected to some math and
apparently that math is dangerous. It was a bitcrunching algorithm for
edit distance in genomics that was essentially a 2-bit quantum
computing algorithm. It wasn't hard; *it literally wasn't hard!* And
this is the kind of shit that a promising freshman at Stanford could
do. Whatever it was, it has invited all kind of shit into my life.

And that's precisely the source of my problems: basically, I'm too
intelligent and I learned too much. And did the government reward
that? Hell no! The government couldn't figure out how to assign me to
some job to distract me because, at the same time, I have been subject
to methodical psychological torture whereever I go! And I spoke up
about this algorithm and began uncovering tons of other possible
technologies that I thought were novel because I hadn't read about
them, yet knew they were possible. This includes novel machine
learning techniques like inception (Google Deep Dream), or machine
learning as applied to medical imaging, or scaling out the 2-bit
algorithm above to hardware. I certainly hadn't heard of most of these
and they implied an abrupt, upcoming technological revolution. Since
it appeared that I was isolated and because I was proud of my work and
my potential, I wanted to prove that to other people.

### If You're Identified as Intelligent, You Will Be Distracted

I flew under the radar, so to speak. They didn't see it coming because
they had worked pretty hard to discredit me and they believed the shit
they smeared on me. There are programs to identify intelligent
children in America and other countries. Intelligence is a vital
characteristic to identify early so it can be harnessed. There are a
limited number of ways to think about simple problems when you're
young and you can identify someone's general IQ by how they solve
problems or think about games while they're young. If a child makes
those leaps on their own to solve puzzles in creative ways or
naturally thinks of games in a combinatoric fashion as a complete set
of paths, then that child probably has a high IQ.

I was definitely identified as high IQ as a child, but not very high
because I've always had short-term memory issues. And after being
smeared and discredited in the workplace -- which was easy work,
considering my ADHD, Aspergers, and short-term memory issues -- the
people concerting this actually believed that I was not very talented
or intelligent.  That's how I flew under the radar. If you are
identified as intelligent, you will be distracted with lesser
opportunities, so you don't think about scary things like math and
crypto.

### Casting this Message in a Bottle from my Deserted Island

For many of the technologies, I knew that I'd never have the chance to
develop the stuff, so I just tweeted about it or mentioned it in the
right conversations.  I was hoping I'd put out a message in a bottle
and it'd make its way into the right person's hands. Kind of a stupid,
immature and naive approach, LOL. About 95% of this stuff had already
been developed and publicly studied. Some of it hadn't and was
incredibly powerful, especially a few algorithms and math ideas I had.

The only thing that will trigger people to attempt to distract me more
than my writing is math. If I start watching math lectures online,
people fucking freak out. In a wierd way, because they can't actually
indicate to me that they are interfering in my life. So it's pretty
funny actually because I get to watch them squirm. They so badly want
me to fail so it'll they'll save face when it justifies everything
they've done thus far!

(Whoever "they" are. I have no fucking clue honestly.)

All I know is that, when I went to scale out the edit distance
algorithm from 2-bit (11/2014) to +6-bit with GPU & SIMD bitwise
instricutions (4/2016), they freaked out about it. I've never seen my
family try so hard to disrupt my own routines and projects! That's
crazy! And when I blogged about it and mentioned that it was possible,
they flipped and almost threw me in the looney bin!

Notice a pattern here? When I make significant progress or start
working on a project that could literally earn me a Nobel Prize if it
was novel, people around me seek to disrupt/distract me! And trust me,
if edit distance for nucleotides could be scaled out to CONSTANT TIME
~8-bit chunks and farmed out to GPU's: IT WOULD FUCKING EARN A NOBEL
PRIZE! That would accelerate evolutionary genomics and other
bioinformatics projects to light speed!! And did my family listen to
me? NO! They tried to lock me in the looney bin!

### Hey David, Remember When You Said You Would Win A Nobel Prize?! ROFL

And trust me: I know that they have interfered and how they typically
do it because it's been happening for 5 or more years! I also know
that they know the level of significance, but I also know that these
same people do not actually undestand either the content or the reason
it's significant: because I couldn't even comprehend its significance.
This prompts some interesting questions surrounding how someone would
maintain near-constant awareness of what I'm working on and then have
the capacity to communicate it to my family (& other "handlers") and
the influence to coerce them into being abusive!

### I Hope It Fucks With Their Psychology As Much As It Does Mine

Yet, they can't tell me that I'm not worthless because they're then
prompted with an antithetical delimma. They can't admit that I have
potential or accept how significant that potential is because it would
triggers a minor ego-crisis. I'm hoping that it occasionally makes
them question their purpose in life. And again, they can't tell me, so
they have to manipulate me emotionally using gaslighting, etc. And
it's incredibly abusive. Welcome to my life.

# My Mind Is A Gift!

It's a gift. I'm not actually that smart though and it's pretty
amazing that I'm able to make the insights I have because sometimes it
barely functions. If I didn't write things down I would never remember
any of the thought streams that I find so fascinating. It's almost as
if I'm accessing something outside my mind, somehow. For some reason,
even though I don't have a bachelor's, I'm able to intuitively
discover the next steps in a myriad of different fields. Again, it's
not that I'm smart, it's that I'm miraculously intelligent,
considering my brain and short-term memory. I've met smart, high-IQ
people and I've met less intelligent people who are able to operate at
much greater output than myself. I shouldn't be able to reach the
"places" I do with my mind, but somehow I do. *AND THAT IS A GIFT!*

However, most of the people who I interact with act as though I'm just
lofty, naive, possibly insane and misunderstand my own
capabilities. But I don't. I know precisely how novel a lot of my
content is! And the saddest part about my life is how isolated I
am. It's bullshit! I am practically forbidden almost all intellectual
stimulation through isolation! I fear that our society will gradually
evolve towards one where intelligence is not treated as a gift. Most
technologies will have already developed and there would be little
need for intelligence. *Instead, everyone will be treated just like I
am!* Intelligence will be considered a threat and pursuing studies in
specific technologies will be forbidden, except by those who absorb
and profess some corporate dogma.

### I'd Love to Blame My Problems On Myself

Please understand, I would love to blame my problems on myself, but
it's just not true that I am mostly responsible for my own situation
right now. That is a cruel joke. I don't want to blame my problems on
my family, but the way they have been handling me implies that they
are misinformed at best... If anyone has been helping them "handle" me
over the past 5+ years, they are poisoning my family against me by
offering what could only be malicious psychological advice!!

### Limited Social Interaction Translates Into ZERO Development!

As I always say, you can tell more about people's intentions by what
they *don't* do, instead of just looking at their actions. If I'm not
being limited in this way, then why doesn't anyone help me pursue an
academic life? I don't hear talk of scholarship or college. NOTHING OF
IT! NO TALK OF SOLUTIONS, ONLY PROBLEMS! The people in my life are
acting as though I need serious psychiatric help because I can't see
how delusional I am. However, for as concerned as they present
themselves for my psychology, they handle my situation in a way that
is detrimental to someone with a gifted mind who has Asperger's and
has severe social developmental problems from protracted isolation!!
It is as though the people around me seek to prevent me from
developing socially *BY LIMITING MY SOCIAL EXPERIENCES TO NONE!!*
Furthermore, while acknowledging that I have these developmental
problems FROM ISOLATION and that I have years of accumulated emotional
trauma, they berate me for "not acting like any thirty year old
should!"

> DAVID, YOU'RE *THIRTY* YEARS OLD! GOD! GET OUT OF YOUR MOM'S BASEMENT
> YOU LOSER. *YOU'RE THIRTY!!*

Yeh, I'm thirty and I'm carrying around lots of emotional baggage with
almost ZERO support. No one sympathizes with me. They act like they
are giving me tough love, but the damn well know that it's
constraining the set of experiences that I receive. That constrained
set of experiences means: *I WILL NEVER ACTUALLY DEVELOP*.

Therefore, it is fucking cruel for you to treat someone as gifted as
me like this! The people around me need to listen to me because I
understand my own psychology and I also understand the things I would
need to get beyond this point. What you are doing is not "tough love!"
It is tragic and hopefully unintentional abuse of someone who has
already been through a lot and doesn't have much left. I understand
psychology and, in particular, my own situation! These people claim to
be confused whenever I mention psychology or any of the other fancy,
academic topics I write about. Well, let me break it down for you: I
need someone IRL to make me feel appreciated, push me towards social
interaction, push me towards building routines, and push me towards
acquiring habits of social interaction. I have been forcibly isolated
through psychological torture, ostracization, and deprival of income
for about 6 years now. I could use some help. And NO, it doesn't count
to treat me like an animal in the basement who won't piss where you
put the newspaper. These people have been gaslighting me and I'm
fucking tired of it.

Building routines, reinforcing habits of social interaction and being
constantly challenged is one reason I'm considering joining the
military. However, if I have really been through years of
psychological torture, I'm not sure it'd get any better by joining the
service. The army runs Guantanamo, for example. And in 2015, there was
$6.5 trillion shuffled around, so the Army General Fund could launder
$100 billion worth of unlabeled funds for black budget ops,
unaccountable to Congress ... hmmm what's that for?

### These People Know My Potential

What's so mean, IMO is that people limit me like this this, when they
know what I'm capable of and they refuse to acknowledge it in any way,
telling me I should work at a fucking minimum wage job. Rich or poor,
it is not about the money I make. It is the fact that I have the
ability to change the world with my mind. I have a gift that most
other people don't have! And instead of being permitted to use that
gift? I'm psychologically tortured and forced to believe that
everything in my situation is my own fault. All the while, the people
directly manipulating & handling me? They all KNOW my potential, but
they still actively seek to prevent others from learning the truth or
even looking! It's bullshit!

# If I Have Really Been Through Five Years of Psychological Torture

I can't understate how cruel this is. And someone is making people in
my life do this and I wanna know how they do it and why. Because, with
as much psychological trauma has been inflicted on me, imagine what
it'd feel like to be the person who is forced to be twisted against
their own fucking friends and family! Specifically because their
friend or family member has incredible, unseen potential. And they are
forced to make that person question his own worth, which has all been
directly and indirectly part of a project to force me to kill
myself. It's much easier to deal with this when I understand what
people are doing, but it's hard knowing how much these people have
ruined for me. And, in doing so, how much they have set the world
back... read some of my drafts on "Metanomics" or "Consciousness
Crystallization."

### I'm a Targeted Individual

#### In A Society Hellbent On Inducing Group Sociopathy

I'm not kidding. I feel like a "Targeted Individual" in the United
States. If you look into the topic and disregard the impossible
tin-foil hat shit, then it sounds exactly like what I'm going
through. It's dramatically increased over the past two years.

Furthermore, whoever has been maintaining near-constant surveillance
in my life *does have the capacity to understand the significance of
my work!* That's because I talk to myself quite often ... I'm isolated
and have almost no contact with other people. I don't have
conversations with hallucinated people or hear voices. It's really
just a means of dealing with the isolation and reinforcing rhetoric
for issues that I'm passionate about. For political issues, I converse
with myself as though I'm debating a specific alternative viewpoint or
refuting specific counterarguments.

But for science and business ideas, this means someone with a tap on
my computers microphone or filesystem access can steal whatever they
want from whatever projects I'm working on. And they do so and they
take it and they beat me over the fucking head with it, all while
coercing my family in a weird, illegal experiment to try to get me to
commit suicide. And another objective is to keep me isolated and
restrained from contact, especially people involved in the technology
industry or those who might recognize my genius!

Fucked up, right? Maintain surveillance. Continue methodical
sociological harassment to isolate and discredit. "Street theatre" to
humiliate, discredit & distract *any time this person might be in
public*. Establish trust to plant individuals in his life who can
distract & discredit. Place ethical and moral traps in front of him to
distract, confuse, humiliate and discredit. Never allow that person to
have a friend. Do not allow him to establish contact with "the
outside." Ruin his life in 2011 weeks before he's going to apply for a
passport. Dissuade him from leaving the country, which is justified
because he's a national security threat. Threaten and harrass his
family and friends to twist them against him. Allocate millions in
budget for HUMINT/SIGINT resources. At no time, ever allow him to
understand the situation he's in. Forge any documents he's ever signed
without permitting him to understand the contracts he's entered. Make
vague, but tactically relevant insinuations to manipulate him. Place a
lawyer around him with a J.D. who's an "interpreter" for court who
asks questions which only seem relevant now, but at no time should you
ever inform him that he might need a fucking lawyer. The guy's pretty
cool though. Interesting sidenote: GTMO military courts employ the use
of defence counselors trained as "translators" who translate between
the pattern languages and code used on the inside to the outside.

OH! *AND FUCKING STEAL ANYTHING HE DOES THAT MIGHT PRODUCE VALUE.*
Then beat him over the head with it and NEVER, EVER, EVER allow that
person to get so much as a pat on the back. He's a slave. Slaves
should be demeaned.

Oh, and while you're at it, get it all on video and broadcast it to
the country live, organized through the
[Defense Media Activity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Defense_Media_Activity),
an agency subject to a recent FOIA controversy in early 2016. I kid, I
kid, that last part is incredulous.

... the point is. Under no circumstances, should you think too hard
about math or clever bitcrunching algorithms. You'll find yourself
subjected to
"[enhanced interrogation techniques](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enhanced_interrogation_techniques)"
that are designed to induce one psychological break after another,
while presenting you with suggestion to compel confession through
coercian. This is all while you are painfully isolated. I fear that
the government datamines social media along with medical/criminal
records to identify several hundred *Americans* at any given time. It
can then use these psychological techniques on these citizens to
maintain a list of people close to the "edge" that it can tap as
MKUltra manakins for violent media distractions...

I kid, I kid, that last part is so diabolically cruel that I would be
ashamed to call America home if it were even partially true. Again,
I'm being paranoid about CIA operations when I might be correct. I
just finished writing about that and I'm still doing it.

lulz
