---
title: "The Death of Creativity"
categories: blog
tags: "philosophy singularity postmodernism metamodernism"
headline: "Save the Touchstones!"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "A myriad of psychological and sociological challenges face us
tomorrow, born out of a world where novelty is scarce, the prospect of
individuality, outnumbered, faces sublimation and creativity wilts in
terra cocta."
---

<a name="the-evolution-of-information-distribution" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [The Evolution of Information Distribution](#the-evolution-of-information-distribution)

A myriad of psychological and sociological challenges face us
tomorrow, born out of a world where novelty is scarce, the prospect of
individuality, outnumbered, faces sublimation and creativity wilts in
terra cocta.

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [The Evolution of Information Distribution](#the-evolution-of-information-distribution)

#### &#x03D5; [The Inversion of Mass Communication](#the-inversion-of-mass-communication)

#### &#x03D5; [Whose Dictionary?](#whose-dictionary)

#### &#x03D5; [Check Yo Bubble](#check-yo-bubble)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Make It New!](#make-it-new)

#### &#x03D5; [Primordial Ooze of the Noosphere](#primordial-ooze-of-the-noosphere)

#### &#x03D5; [My Electro Glitch Hip Crunk Future Trap Jazz Band](#my-electro-glitch-hip-crunk-future-trap-jazz-band)

#### &#x03D5; [How Many Hipsters?](#how-many-hipsters)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Memetics and Epimemetics](#memetics-and-epimemetics)

#### &#x03D5; [Everything Old Is New Again](#everything-old-is-new-again)

#### &#x03D5; [White Noise, Pink Noise](#white-noise-pink-noise)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Who Knows What You Know?](#who-knows-what-you-know)

#### &#x03D5; [The Unknown Philosopher](#the-unknown-philosopher)

#### &#x03D5; [Avert Your Eyes](#avert-your-eyes)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [The Death of Creativity](#the-death-of-creativity)

#### &#x03D5; [I'm 100% Free Range A Postieri...](#im-100-percent-free-range-a-postieri)

#### &#x03D5; [Move On and Shine Brighter](#move-on-and-shine-brighter)

#### &#x03D5; [Shade This!](#shade-this)

<a name="the-inversion-of-mass-communication" />

### [The Inversion of Mass Communication](#the-inversion-of-mass-communication)

We've seen the evolution of the distribution of mass communication
from four channels to dozens to the internet. The internet is
essentially the inversion of the concept of mass communication, where
each person has their own channel.  And for about two decades, the
average person had access to the power of knowledge and information
while the internet was completely free. This access is unequivocally
greater than at any other time in human history.

But this can be just as dangerous as it is beneficial. If any
information can be freely transmitted over maximally connected
distribution networks, then who's job is it to discern misinformation?
In the previous mass communication paradigm, it was the job of
journalists, editors, reporters and producers to vet quality of
information. If this is almost completely lacking, and especially when
we are lacking those cultural touchstones, the propensity for
misinformation to alter our course of action skyrockets.  Our beloved
21st century
[Library of Alexandria](/posts/2016-08-01-from-the-parapets-of-alexandria-knowledge-extinction-events.html)
becomes it's antithesis.

<a name="whose-dictionary" />

### [Whose Dictionary?](#whose-dictionary)

The Urban Dictionary is a loosely controlled collection of idioms and
expression, but who controls what gets on there or not? Are there
entries with false definitions? Or unused expressions? If we pull
idioms and expressive language from experiences in our lives, then if
we all have completely different experiences, can we communicate with
idioms?

<a name="check-yo-bubble" />

### [Check Yo Bubble](#check-yo-bubble)

The newsfeed filter bubble is incredibly powerful, though
incomprehensibly complex.  How often do you check your friends
facebook or twitter feed?  How do you know what a consistent
experience is if the sum of our experiences suffers from maximal
differentiation?

<a name="make-it-new" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Make It New!](#make-it-new)

Individuality is derived from how we and others present or perceive
ourselves to differ in relation to some universal constants.
Individuality is evaporating because these cultural touchstones we use
to define ourselves are becoming buried in a sea of mimicry. It's
ironic that uniformly amplified, stochastic expression of novel
cultural elements would threaten individuality itself. In other words,
if everyone has the capacity for maximized, wholly and equivalent
individualistic expression, then individuality disappears because we
lose those centralized touchstones.

For what are we, if we lack these unifying cultural elements that we
use to define ourselves? How can one compare themselves to someone
else if we don't all share some common experiences?

<a name="primordial-ooze-of-the-noosphere" />

### [Primordial Ooze of the Noosphere](#primordial-ooze-of-the-noosphere)

Decades ago, everyone was exposed to common cultural factors.  Now, we
have been thrust far into the noosphere, which is like the biosphere,
but for knowledge.  To be far into the noosphere means that we are
far, far beyond the point where there is enough time in one's life to
consume all the books, movies, music, academic studies, and other
information in the world.  One could argue that we've always been
there, but I think it's clear that as the population grows, so do the
cultural artifacts.  In the past two decades, these artifacts have
been piling up and who is to say which are relevant and which are not?

<a name="my-electro-glitch-hip-crunk-future-trap-jazz-band" />

### [My Electro Glitch Hip Crunk Future Trap Jazz Band](#my-electro-glitch-hip-crunk-future-trap-jazz-band)

We have more genre's of music every year because everyone struggles to
sound different. Preexisting genre's are combinated to create new
ones, but at some point, there is so much differentiation that any
hope is lost for creating a discernably different genre, at least to
any degree of significance. Not only is there so much variation in
content, there is equally as much variation in patterns of content
consumption behaviors.

<a name="how-many-hipsters" />

### [How Many Hipsters?](#how-many-hipsters)

How many hipsters does it take to change a lightbulb? Well, if you
have more than one, they'll never be able to decide on the lighting
spectum, the shape, the fixture, the environmental consequences and
the vender.  They'll probably need something handmade.  It's really
hard to market to more than one hipster.  Too eclectic. And so there
are economic consequences as well. Cost to advertise skyrockets and
then there's so much noise noone wants to pay attention to your
marketing message.

<a name="memetics-and-epimemetics" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Memetics and Epimemetics](#memetics-and-epimemetics)

Genres of music and art forms inspire subcultures to arise and
diversify. Then, our culture becomes more fragmented, psychologically
and sociologically.  Memetically, this changes how people are
psychologically structured and the degree to which their psyches can
be predicted.

The exponential variation of memes decreases their viability. They are
less likely to persist and this alters their epimemetic behavior.
Epimemetics is to memes as epidemiology is to disease. For the most
part, with increased number and decreased viability, it's challenging
for any memes to rise to the top to become a touchstone. And there
would be very few touchstones universally pervading society.

<a name="everything-old-is-new-again" />

### [Everything Old Is New Again](#everything-old-is-new-again)

Today, everything that has been done as been done before. We've all
heard that before. It's even in Ecclesiastes:

> The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which
> is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under
> the sun.

All new and old genres of movies are recombinations of pre-existing
genre's and works, maybe with new technology or a new perspective.
But they're all the same ideas. This isn't to say that recent TV or
movies lack quality. Quite the opposite: there is so much excellent
writing and production in entertainment today. But there's so much
content on Hulu and Netflix that it becomes hard to experience it
all.

<a name="white-noise-pink-noise" />

### [White Noise, Pink Noise](#white-noise-pink-noise)

For art and life in general, everything starts to blur together.
Nothing is pure and nothing is original.  When a work of art is
perceived as a reconstitution of other ideas, what happens when there
are innumerable, indistinguishable ideas to link to? Can any
interpretations be said to have consistency in meaning? If no symbols
can have relevance, then what happens to language? What does this mean
for us? For individual cultures, old and new? For the entire world as
one? In the context of semiotics?

There are many means of communicating with, motivating, relating to,
empathizing with and manipulating people that depend on widely shared
psychological structures.  When and if there are none, the capacity to
control is diluted. Regardless of your personal feelings about these
methods of influence -- for many there is an incredibly negative
connotation -- they are crucial to a functioning, robust society. We
need to be able to predict and coordinate behavior through
socialogical and psychological structures.  And so, if nothing rises
above the noise, we'll have problems.

<a name="who-knows-what-you-know" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [Who Knows What You Know?](#who-knows-what-you-know)

This takes on an interesting dimension when it's now possible to know
the information that a person may know or have seen.  While for most
of us, we see simply noise, those operating a
[panopticon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Panopticon) can draw useful
statistical inferences based on categorizing people on overlapping
sets of information that we have consumed and our behaviors.
Obviously, such a capability isn't available to all of us, just those
who happen to have a surveillance apparatus on hand.

<a name="the-unknown-philosopher" />

### [The Unknown Philosopher](#the-unknown-philosopher)

There was a 19th or 20th century French philosophy that, for the life
of me, I can't find.  I think he was a contemporary of Heidegger, but
I can't be sure.  This philosopher dropped out of college and refused
education out of concern for the potential for others to know the
extent of his knowledge. I can't find this philosopher and, while he
wasn't hugely popular, that really resonated with me. It's more
relevant now than ever, with information consumption primarily
funneled through ISP's and the internet.

<a name="avert-your-eyes" />

### [Avert Your Eyes](#avert-your-eyes)

There are some links that you could click on and you do not want to
click on them ... an extreme example, there is a horrible, terrible,
no good cookbook that you probably do not want to mention or
accidentally click on. But, our society will continue to extend it's
capabilities for classifying and categorizing people based on what
they are known to know.  And while you will never have this power,
*they* will.

<a name="the-death-of-creativity" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665; [The Death of Creativity](#the-death-of-creativity)

So as the semiotic noise increases, what happens as our cultural
artifacts become less pure and more diluted?  What happens as our
cultural artificers -- our musicians, directors, poets, etc. -- become
more capable than ever of creating, but less capable of standing out?
Or incapable of pushing the boundaries?  If it's impossible for anyone
to push the boundaries in most fields, what does that imply about the
people in that society? What are their lives like?  What do they feel?
Where do they find happiness?

### I Want To Know...

#### I Really Wanted To Know... Don't You?

<iframe width="420" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/vCZ1YteCv5M" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a name="im-100-percent-free-range-a-postieri" />

### [I'm 100% Free Range A Postieri...](#im-100-percent-free-range-a-postieri)

#### For the most part....

There are some insights into creativity which can only be learned
experientially. In order to obtain these insights, you would have to
be extremely creative in a particular field, truly pushing the
boundaries. There are many insights which, when learned firsthand
through experience, will resonate through the core of your being and
facillitate a much greater change than anyone could ever experience
through the academic study of that thing. This is true for creativity
itself too. So therefore, the death of creativity is very depressing
indeed.

For me, jamskating was a new burgeoning sport that was mostly
undeveloped and this was the thing that experientially taught me about
creativity. I always enjoy watching the end of Bones Brigade.  The
last part of the interview with Rodney Mullen never ceases to blow me
away. His understanding of philosophy is on mystic guru level.

<a name="move-on-and-shine-brighter" />

### [Move On and Shine Brighter](#move-on-and-shine-brighter)

#### A Brief Treatise on Lampshade Warfare

For me, there was no greater pain than being constantly pushed out of
jamskating and made into a hasbeen. Even though most of my
accomplishments there were downplayed, I still have the most valuable
asset I built with my time in jamskating and that is my creativity. I
learned out to generalize it when I asked myself: what if I took all
that energy I applied to jamskating and figured out how to apply it
elsewhere?

And I realized that, if I could do that, no one could ever assert that
my contributions in jamskating were inconsequential. It wouldn't
matter if, every single time I tried to start skating again, a handful
of people interfered. If I managed to prove beyond any doubt that I
could do apply the same level of creativity to life, no one could
*ever* make the assumption that I wasn't really that big of a deal.
It wouldn't matter if I had been forgotten in jamskating because I
would eventually make damn sure that I was remembered. And all those
people that would hold me at arms length wouldn't be able to hold me
back elsewhere.

<a name="shade-this" />

### [Shade This!](#shade-this)

#### [Points at Genitals]

That was my long game. They wouldn't let me shine, so I took my ball
and went somewhere else.

ට The Prior Artificer

P.S. I wish I was capable of producing some book or movie or painting which
captured these ideas, wrapping them within a clever story that enables
the reader to explore them on their own, without forcing concrete
assumptions on the reader.  Like Kafka's *Metamorphisis*.  Or the
*Trial*. Or Nietzche's *Thus Spoke Zarathustra*.
