---
title: "From the Parapets of Alexandria: Ethics of Censorship"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics epistemology censorship"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- TODO: add bookmarks
- TODO: add ToC

# **アレクサンドリア**の**丏**から

#### Part Two: Ethics of Censorship (in the 21st century)

In the 21st century, lightning fast communication and augmented
algorithmic distillation will magnify the effects that ideas have on
our world. Technology will become more volatile and accessible.
Therefore, governments, organizations and industries will attempt to
justify broad censorship to regulate technology & communication,
citing promotion of safety.

They are well justified in doing this, but this is precisely the
danger. The more powerful organizations of industry and government
will attempt to craft regulations which benefit them in some way.
Further, various governments may attempt widespread censorship. These
pushes towards censorship that are self-motivated or complete will
stifle both economic development and humanity's development as a
whole, on a regional scale as well as global.

After VR evolves into AR and machine-learning has been patented to
death, the next opportunities are found in biotechnology, genomic data
sciences, nanotechnology, 3D printing and advanced computing
technologies. These are all technologies which can have dangerous
implications.

However well-meaning this censorship and development of technology may
be, in the end, it will set us back as a nation and as a species. It
may lock us within a cage of which we are unaware. It will happen
faster than we will realize and once it does, we may never again have
the chance to correct it. It's tendency to stunt humanity's
development may ultimately sow the seeds for our own undoing. There is
no pursuit more honorable or more beneficial than the pursuit of
knowledge. And we'll face a situation where not only does the natural
evolution of culture in the presence of technology undermine the
incentives motivating the pursuit of knowledge, but also humanity's
fear of technology will make such pursuits illegal! In a way, it
already has!

In itself, this begs at least a hundred questions, but I want to
discuss the ethics of censorship. When is it ethiccally permissible to
restrict the development and exchange of ideas. This is important
because, as I've stated, the 2020's will necessitate that we strongly
regulate technology. Further, it seems that we will seek to regulate
political speech as well, but each will drive the other: pursuit of
censorship for technology will entice the pursuit of censorship of
political speech. And vice versa.

So, how can we do this safely, without stepping on individuality or
freedom? Would Hip Hop have been developed in the 80's without free
speech? Was there a movement like Hip Hop born in Soviet Russia or
China? Was a movement like that born in Libya? Citizens in Libya were
so restricted, they were unable to learn foreign languages. Would a
cultural movement like Hip Hop be likely to spread internationally or
even be born in a country that's not allowed to have contact with the
outside?! HELL NO! The conditions limiting outside or inter-regional
contact necessarily prevent people birthing a social movement from
networking to the outside. So no, a social movement like that would
not be born in those conditions because it could not possibly be.

So, we see some major forces driving the debate around free speech.
- is there a better term than "forces" ?
- corporate forces (seeking to establish a cartel/monopolism/etc
  around a specific technology and/or industry)
- political forces
  - these will seek to repurpose censorship for safety in technology
    towards their own agendas
- security forces
  - homesec, etc.
- the people
  - consumers, plaintiffs, regular people
    - these people will be motivated by fear (of technology and
      tech-powered terrorism)
      - fear will be the strongest motivation here.
  - academics
    - these people will be motivated by a fear that free discussion
      will be stifled
  - discuss how these organizations and groups might achieve total
    power and lock others out
    - this departes from the kind of total power seen before in that
      the common person is not neglected in poverty. because
      technology enables cheap solutions, once we build it out, we
      shouldn't actually need much of anything.
      - this is problematic for it's own reasons...
- (i have a real tendency to get off track. do i really need to move
  towards this?)

# Censorship's Effect on Development

What effect does censorship have on development of society, culture,
technology and discourse? This can be demonstrated with many examples
where restricted discourse led to stagnated development in each of
these dimensions of humanity. This stagnated discourse leads to dead
ends in the graph of knowledge, for individuals and groups.
Blacklisting and whitelisting knowledge restricts requisite knowledge,
without which humanity simply cannot progress further.  This leads to
a phenomenon which is the opposite of the Singularity: progress
plateaus. In any case, a plateau or stepped progression may be
natural, but this is a certainty, given a level of censorship.

Central to this series is the observation that the global elites could
not have misunderstood the progression of technology and it's effect
on the dissemination of information. How widespread this understanding
was is up for grabs, but I believe that we have been misled with false
futurism. Understanding how these global elites knew and knowing how
they knew furthers my belief that they intent to enact a global
reset. Regardless of what the ruling class in each country knew and
when, people understand now the power that free information and
knowledge impart! Knowledge is power!

I am trying to warn people that if you do not appreciate this power
and stand up for it right now, it will be taken from you. I will also
show that there are many reasons for *some information* to be
restricted. This will act as a duplicitous cover to restrict
dissemination of *all information*. This is sad because we are
entering an age where decentralized, unmonitized and truly free
transmission of information cannot be impeded, which is why, if there
were to be a total collapse, it would occur now. As in right now. As
in within the next few years. A decade at the most.

### Thermopylae, Marathon and Kublai Khan

How does cheap and free transmission affect people? How does it lead
to progress? The power of a simple message unimpeded can change the
course of civilizations. At Thermopolae, the brave acts of hundreds of
Spartans struck fear into the heart of Persians and funneled vigor
into the hearts of Greeks to rise up and resist the oncoming
hordes. Would this envigorating effect have been possible if not for
the story? What if it couldn't be told?

What about the Battle of Marathon?! Greeks defeated the Persians and
news of this victory was so critical that Pheidippides ran over twenty
miles to bear news of it's victory. *Every marathon you run is part of
a millenia-old celebration of being the first to deliver a message!*

In Kublai Khan's 13th century Mongol invasion of Japan, a typhoon
decimated the Mongol's forces. I believe that the dissemination of
information was somehow responsible for this. I don't know how it
would be possible or the exact details. If the Japanese baited the
Mongols into attacking at just the right time, then they changed the
course of information. Why? If this is so, it is because they had the
right information and the Mongol navy, mostly docked on the coast of
Japan didn't. This may have been pure luck. It's certainly not widely
known as anything else.

### Who Loves Hip Hop?

*I do*. Hip Hop is a modern example of how the dissemination of
information changed the lives of millions of people living in mostly
African American and Hispanic ghettos in urban America.  In
particular, it is about the democratization of music production
hardware. It is the first time that *everyone* had access to all the
equipment needed to produce music, no crazy white man involved.

Hip Hop represents the equivalent of the Internet in terms of
democratization of technology in the music industry. It is the 20th
century's equivalent of the printing press. It is similar in how
economic and technological factors transformed social and cultural
conditions. This empowered millions of people and cutting out those
few who stood in the way since the birth of radio and mass media!

In the late 70's and early 80's, music production equipment was still
expensive, but it was the first time since the invention of radio that
someone could produce and record music by themselves. Along came the
Roland 808 Drum Machine and anyone could produce simple loops. Without
much other hardware, one could program a loop and rap over it.

No studio engineer. No musicians except the musicians. No pricey
studio hours. The songs could be created by individuals. If they could
get it on a tape, they could play it somewhere. If it was good, they
could then pay to have it mastered by a recording engineer. This
allowed urban musicians to experiment with new forms and there was
nobody above them that told them they couldn't make it or push it to
syndication on the radio waves. It was this change in the economics
and technology of music that paved the way for the cultural revolution
known as Hip Hop.

Def jam poetry evolved into MC's lyrical style. Block Party DJs like
‪‎Kool Herc‬ and ‪Africa Bambaataa‬ battled with innovative DJ styles and
collaborated to architect a cultural movement that simply couldn't be
stopped. Lyrics provided a lens into conditions and poverty in ethnic
urban communities which were otherwise lost and forgotten. Until this
radio explosion radio was tightly controlled and continued to be for
decades.

The cassette recorder & player was the next major advancement. It
meant anything with a headphone out or a tape interface could record a
mixtape that could be copied and shared with friends. No longer could
white, corporate types maintain a music industry cabal. Everyone who
could afford a Walkman or earlier incarnations of cassette tech could
make their own music.

Again, democratization of music production birthed a genre of music
giving a voice to those otherwise silenced for generations. And why?
Because it gave poor people a megaphone. Do you think the average
person would let specific practices continue if they really understood
the effects? No. So if you can share information, you can put a stop
to things!

### What Created the Black Lives Matter Movement?

#### Digital Publication of Local Government Data

Why did Black Lives Matter arise in 2014, 2015, and 2016? It was the
democratization of government statistics required for data
science. Quite simply, before this time, most of that data had been
inaccessible. In the early 2010's and especially in late 2013, there
was a huge push to democratize data for all governments in the United
States and around the world. In the US, state and local governments
*digitized, released and publicized* records including arrest and
incarceration records.

It was this movement to digitize and publicize data that sowed the
seeds for the anger that ensued. It it was something that was
inevitable. This data would have inevitably become available. Some
people woul dhave been ready for it. This anger was well justified,
though I hope we funnel this into positive movement and come
together. The reason people were so angry is because they could
finally show that there was a lot of unconscious racism across
America.

*Furthermore, there were these pockets where institutionalized racism
was harbored.* These places were cities and districts where it was
*UNDENIABLE* that you had *conscious, instituationalized racism*,
where the local law enforcement was acting as "Sherrifs of Nottingham"
and intentionally enforcing laws in pursuit of suppression. These
places were few and far between IMO. Ferguson is such an example,
where the disparity is so pronounced it is undeniably conscious.

In subsequent sections, I'll discuss how social media newsfeed
algorithms have vulnerabilities and flaws that increase division in
America. In particular, clustering algorithms and others have runaway
feedback loops that have a runaway affect that *DIVIDES AMERICA*.
These algorithms are difficult to design, tweak and validate in the
first place, but there are major problems here, as far as I can see.

# What Was The Prophecy?

Tight control over communication media and content stifles social
change before it has a chance to grow. These policies are usually
implemented in order to encourage some facets of culture blessed by
state or idealogy and to discourage others. It becomes harder for new
cultural developments to take root and grow large enough to challenge
those of the status quo. The next blues, rock or hiphop might simply
never happen.

### Ideas Attain Life of Their Own

This starkly departs from some of my previous statements on
culture. Basically, as communication infrastructure encourages the
rapid spread of ideas and information, the speed and bandwidth at
which an memes traverse the globe approaches infinite. Therefore, our
world becomes much more affected and determined by *IDEAS* themselves.
In otherwords, as limitations to communication tend toward zero, then
these aethereal metaphysical entities, i.e. beliefs and ideas, begin
to take precedence over the physical realm, regardless of whether
virtual or real, individual or shared, true or false.

Ideas begin to take a life of their own and their effects reach into
reality at an ever-increasing pace. They acquire a life of their
own. They are like metaphysical entities which once were bound by slow
information replication rates and then hierarchical control over mass
media. The more we can communicate, the more power ideas have. If
these ideas have such unfathomably increased power, then we need to
pay more attention to them. Therefore, the surveillance and
epidemiology of memes should be measured, quantified, analyzed,
predicted and carefully controlled.

### A Reevaluation of Life, Culture and Society in the Information Age

This was and is *"the prophecy"*, or at least part of it as a was in
mid-May 2013... It's not so much of a religious thing as it is a
complete reunderstanding of the world in the information age. Neither
it nor its implications are incorrect, but instead require a bit of
common sense so we don't go apeshit with censorship and social
engineering. In context and in practicality, ideas and technology can
be very dangerous today and therefore, there is good reason for some
restriction on communication or what people see. However, in its
overzealous fervor to censor every damn thing the government disagrees
with, we could very easily create a situation where we stifle
innovation at a most critical time. We'll see the most beautiful thing
we've ever created instead roped off or abstracted to artificially
implement hierarchical control or turned against us.

The internet is absolutely glorious in its ability to revolutionize
the world. But like fire, any great tool or technology can be used for
good and can be used for evil. The same technology used to create
plows was used to work metal for weaponry. I fear the day when we can
no longer ask questions or a simple statement can be retroactively
used as justification without proof. Government action can
surreptitiously act against public will, without notification. I have
feared this since high school, at least. I could only predict and
analyze NSA capabilities because of the effort I put into thinking
about what they could do.

### Our Rights Are Sacred and They Descend From God

Our rights are sacred. They descend from God. They do not come from
man. Man cannot give us our rights and man cannot take them away. Our
founding fathers simply recognized the reality of the social
contract. When government oversteps their bounds, what happens is
that, behind the scenes, God or Providence or whatever you want to
call it acts to stir man against the accumulated sins of tyranny. This
will inevitably occur as long as we can see or talk about tyrannical
acts.

Insofar as I understand, this is why our founders claimed that certain
inalienable rights descended from God. Man's natural tendancy is to be
good and just. When we receive the right information and these
problems are framed in the right way, we will stand against the unjust
suffering of others. If it weren't for this, why should a handful of
academics, politicians and pundits go through such lengths to mislead,
obfuscate, and deceive?

*IT IS BECAUSE THEY FEAR THE PEOPLE.* They fear that the free exchange
of information will lead to drastically reduced education costs and
that people across the world will learn about how they have been
misled, sometimes for good reason, as there are arguments to attack
every policy.

### (importance of information to our economic advantage)

Democracy is the worst form of government, except all the others. Its
biggest weakness is susceptibility of its people and institutions to
foreign influence. During the past two decades, foreign influence in
America has undermined the media with subversion and suggestion. As
bandwidth increases the capabilities of and reliance on information
economy structures, then the power that ideas have on our world
implies our government becomes all the more vulnerable to information.

Given that our corporations publish everything to the world, but
economies like China are all-but-closed, that puts American and
democratic industries at a perpetual disadvantage. Given that our
borders are mostly open, sometimes without reasonable immigration
policy or even a fence, that makes it very easy for a few people to
slip in who mean us harm or could exfiltrate the fraction of data we
haven't published to the world. from 2010 through 2013, I read
countless articles where China was accused of intellectual property
theft and industrial espionage.

Our economy is everything. If America doesn't have an economy, we're
toast. Americans don't understand how our world is changing and we
have enemies who don't want us to respond in time. I am not being
alarmist. I am being realistic. This is how it is going to go
down. They loaned us money and stole F-35 design specs. Yeh the F-35
program. The one where we spent fucking $1.5+ Trillion with a fucking
tee. Actually, I have know idea what the total is I just know it has
13 digits. What the fuck did we borrow and spend that money for? Why
didn't we just let China develop the jet and steal it from them?

### (SIGINT/MASINT/HUMINT)

My point is that we have entered the information age. We live in a
world where surface area to SIGINT, MASINT and HUMINT fucking
matter. This shit is serious. We're worried about who uses which
bathroom and no one bothered to pay attention when they fucking stole
everything! So, information and how it disseminates matters.

We can blind ourselves and stunt our own development by censoring
everything. Free information exchange has advantages as well. Working
in secret or without access to the entire internet is also a major
disadvantage, but what does it matter if foreign hacker syndicates
just steal it from you in the end? Yet, if we don't have free access
to information, we'll never have another Steve Jobs or Einstein or
Elon Musk. Imagine if Albert Einstein was only allowed to view
specific patents. Or the government arbitrarily told him he couldn't
use anything he saw for his own research. Or if he never received any
information from the patent office, but they just decided they didn't
want him to be the guy that published `E=mc^2`... Baby Einstein?
Relativity? *NOT ON My WATCH!!* `E=mc^2` ?! *NOT IN MY 'MERITOCRACY!!*


### (Conclusions for Part Two)

- I never thought there was a border of ideas you weren't supposed to
  cross into. I understood there were things you should avoid knowing,
  but I generally thought that the smarter you were the better off you
  would be. I believed that it was at least a linear relationship.
