---
title: "From the Parapets of Alexandria: Knowledge Extinction Events"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics epistemology censorship"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# **アレクサンドリア**の**丏**から

This is a series inspired by the battles we see waged against
censorship everyday. The menace of tyranny has been growing for years
and by the time we recognize it for what it is, it will be too late.

The development of all new ideas and knowledge is greatly hindered by
censorship of any kind. This includes philosophy itself. Furthermore,
America's stride towards social progress around the world has been
reduced to a wimpering stagger by censorship and manipulation of
social media. We promise such great works around the world, but what
does it say when the world can see we obviously can't speak openly at
home. If we pride ourselves on freedom to religion and freedom of
speech, what does this say? And what kind of election is this?!

The first essay will discuss the effect censorship has on the
development of knowledge in general. The second essay will cover
specific strategies for censorship in social media, as well as how its
implementation foments risk in the American economy by threatening to
undermine trust in technology products and restricting available
markets for our products. The third essay will combine ideas from the
first two to discuss how social media censorship isolates individuals,
divides people and creates more problems than it could solve.

# [What Kind of 21st Century Do You Want?](#what-kind-of-21st-century)

### &#x2605; [What Is Best For Humanity?](#what-is-best-for-humanity)

### &#x2605; [Censorship Threatens to Stymie Human Development](#censorship-threatens-to-stymie-human-development)

### &#x2605; [Technology is a Straw Man for Censorship](#technology-is-a-straw-man-for-censorship)

# [The Internet is Our Library of Alexandria](#the-internet-is-our-library-of-alexandria)

### &#x2605; [Central Point of Failure for the Modern Internet](#central-point-of-failure-for-the-modern-internet)

### &#x2605; [Knowledge-Extinction Events](#knowledge-extinction-events)

### &#x2605; [How Did Man Reach the Moon?](#how-did-man-reach-the-moon)

#### The Legend of [Wan Hu](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wan_Hu)

![Wan Hu](/img/posts/2016-08-01-from-the-parapets-of-alexandria-knowledge-extinction-events/wan-hu-moon-rockets.png)

<a name="what-kind-of-21st-century" />

# [What Kind of 21st Century Do You Want?](#what-kind-of-21st-century)

Ahead of us, lay some important decisions that will decide the fate of
the world. Not just America or Europe or the Western world. Censorship
and the free availability of information lay at the center of this.
What we decide in these next five years and how we react to specific
trends will determine the fate of the world. We must decide: what kind
of 21st century do we want to live in? What kind of 21st century do we
want our children and grandchildren to inherit? What will they think
of us?

These are crucial decisions that we must make and history will judge
us from the 22nd century. Many of the destinations for these trends
are inevitable and the forces that drive them are unstoppable! We must
consider these trends and questions individually, as families, as
communities, as nations AND AS ONE!

This is not a "dark" vision of the future! I am tired of being ignored
and recessed as if I am something to be hidden away and swept under
the rug! This is a realistic vision of things that will come to pass
and it is because of the nature of information; it is inherently
metaphysical! I am not going to get into the specifics of *the
prophecy*, but there is nothing any person or group can do to stop the
things I am talking about. You could destroy me and destroy every
fragment of my memory and it would not matter! The truth is I, as an
individual, am irrelevant! And yet, I don't think my job here is done.

In the end, there is one future and it cannot be denied. The only
question is -- how will we get there? Will we be together when we
arrive? Or will we rip ourselves apart trying to fight our fate or
profit from our destiny?

So, instead, we have to determine not where we are going, but how we
are going to get there! Do we want the path towards this future to be
violent? Or do we want it to be peaceful? Do we want this future to
include everyone and all cultures? Of course we do! And we have to
determine whether we want to reach this future after decades of bloody
conflict! Do we want that?! *HELL NO WE DON'T!* If global warfare breaks
out, we will be incapable of responding to environmental threats!
Formerly prosperous regions will be burdened by economic stagnation.

<a name="what-is-best-for-humanity" />

### [What Is Best For Humanity?](#what-is-best-for-humanity)

So, assuming our destination is a foregone conclusion and
understanding that we are accelerating towards it, it would be wise to
take a look at how we've arrived to our current position thus far. How
did humanity get here? How is it that we developed all the technology
that we have today? Why is that relevant to censorship?

> Also, please do note that the communication infrastructure of the
> future completely circumvents censorship: at the level of the
> infrastructure! It will be completely decentralized. So, not only
> would it be unwise to implement widespread censorship, this is the
> last point in history in which it is even possible to destroy an
> idea!  Thus, we get what we have right here: what is basically a
> last ditch effort for widespread censorship -- because guess what:
> it's the last chance to do it.

Two different paths for the 21st century with regard to availability
of information. Again, these separate paths lead to the same place: in
several decades, we'll have a communication infrastructure where it's
impossible to control the desemination of information. Therefore,
we'll reach a world where it's not possible to censor information, but
in the meantime, we will transition through a period of time where
governments and corporations have strong incentives to censor and
attack ideas. So, we can either decide to embrace a controlled
transition towards this destined future world where ideas cannot be
censored or we can trudge painfully through this intermediate world
where governments and corporations try their hardest to censor
information.

The real danger is that many of the legitimate reasons to censor
specific information will be used to implement generalized censorship.
Restriction of some technologies and ideas is necessary because they
are inherently dangerous. Specific algorithms might be dangerous,
especially with regard to artificial intelligence. Genetic technology
is incredibly dangerous in the wrong hands. So how do we fairly block
access to those who would do harm with those technologies while
preventing abuse of this system by those who would make themselves
gatekeepers to this kind of knowledge?

<a name="censorship-threatens-to-stymie-human-development" />

### [Censorship Threatens to Stymie Human Development](#censorship-threatens-to-stymie-human-development)

In fact, if these dangerous technologies are dependencies of almost
all further technological progress, then we will reach a point where
anyone hoping to proceed further in science must be cleared in some
way. That is, if real progress in science requires that you learn some
technology that could be considered dangerous, then there must be some
mechanism in society where people are approved to learn about these
things. Those who fail to be approved cannot be taught specific pieces
of knowledge. This significantly impairs their ability to make
progress in science.

In some ways, our society already has these mechanisms in place to
discover and clear intelligence. If you look in the right places, you
will find them. There are institutions in our society which identify
individuals with high IQ, so they can either be distracted or inducted
into organizations which operate in secret. Sounds crazy, right? Those
high-IQ savants will either have blinders placed on them or they will
be so bound by NDA's they won't be able to speak openly. If you
understand that one of the most valuable resources available to a
superpower is a supply of high-intelligence individuals, then you
would understand the need to identify them early on. These people are
incredibly valuable, but simultaneously incredibly dangerous. The more
intelligent, the more volatile. The wrong person discovering the wrong
things could blow the lid on billions of dollars in research and/or
secret programs...

Knowing some of the things I know, the stuff *they* don't want you to
know? *It's really not that hard!* It's really not! However, exposure
to just one or two of the right pieces of information is enough for a
high-IQ individual to extrapolate thousands of others. Again, the more
intelligent, the more volatile! Why am I writing this? Because I am
damn tired of how I was treated, personally! And I detest the idea of
a society where your contributions and your potential means nothing!
We are marching towards a world just like that! Consumed by nihilism,
your individuality will mean *NOTHING!* I was treated as though my
life were worth *nothing!* I know how to fight this creeping
nihilism. The answer is religion... That is part of the answer
anyways.

<a name="technology-is-a-straw-man-for-censorship" />

### [Technology is a Straw Man for Censorship](#technology-is-a-straw-man-for-censorship)

My fear is that these mechanisms for information and intelligence
control will be abused for censorship at large, especially once
humanity has advanced to attain specific technologies. Dicussion on
censoring dangerous technology is less relevant than censoring people,
groups and current events in social media. When a nation blocks access
to ideas or restricts dialogue on specific ideas or prevents people
from learning and developing, every citizen in that nation suffers
because their intellectual development as a culture stagnates.

I will present an epistemological argument for why censorship, either
by blacklist or whitelist, damages a civilizations ability to
progress. I will detail why the ruling class in any given civilization
has the motive to censor and even destroy knowledge for its own
benefit! I will present historical situations where this kind of
knowledge hording has happened in the past. And hopefully we can
prevent it from happening again.

<a name="the-internet-is-our-library-of-alexandria" />

# [The Internet is Our Library of Alexandria](#the-internet-is-our-library-of-alexandria)

The internet is modern man's Library of Alexandria. This is a stellar
metaphor for the internet's position as both a repository of knowledge
and a mechanism for propagating that knowledge. However, the internet
can be inverted into just the opposite. It can become a destructive
tool of the surveillance state that watches over ever piece of
information ever dispensed. If all communication is via the internet
and all education proceeds through it, then the internet can be used
to measure the sum of knowledge in any given person. In this way, the
internet can be used by tyrants to dispense knowledge to whomever they
permit worthy of access to information. Already, we see social
experiments whereby a
[balkanized internet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Splinternet) or
"splinternet" permits access to information in a manner restricted by
geography. A splinternet can shard information in other ways as well.

What made the library so special in the ancient world? Why did the
Romans burn it? What advantage would they gain from this? Was this
event unique? If not, how could we predict that an event like it would
happen any time soon?

In the western world, Alexandria was a very special place, where
scholars collected information from around the ancient world into an
archive. There were some other libraries, but there was really nothing
like Alexandria.  Everything was gathered into one point, which was a
boon that made Alexandria a Mecca for scholars, but it also made
Alexandria a central point of failure for Western knowledge.

<a name="central-point-of-failure-for-the-modern-internet" />

### [Central Point of Failure for the Modern Internet](#central-point-of-failure-for-the-modern-internet)

The internet is just like this in many ways. The telecom
infrastructure is the central point of failure. If you control the
telecom infrastructure in a nation, you control the internet in that
nation. Simple as that. Look at what happened in the Arab Spring
protests! What is the first thing the dictators did? They shut down
the internet! How did they do that? They had centralized authority
over the telecom industry in their nations. How did they fail to shut
down Twitter, then? Because Twitter was designed to operate over
cellular networks first! *Google:* **Twitter** *and* **40404** and
you'll see what I mean. They couldn't shut down their own cellular
networks because that would disrupt their own forces.

> If you are concerned about tyrrany and disrupted internet service in
> America, then hopefully you caught the drift there. *ENSURE THAT
> 40404 IS SET UP ON YOUR TWITTER ACCOUNT!* You can even set this up
> on a backup account & burner phone, if you're wise like that. It
> won't be useful 'til it's useful.

So, why did the Romans burn the Library of Alexandria? Well it was the
central beacon of knowledge in the Western world! So they understood
that they could horde that knowledge for themselves and use it to more
efficiently rule over Europe and the Middle East. This has happened
time after time. In fact, I would say it's one of those few
unfortunate things that happens in every culture right around the time
when that culture starts nailing it. Right around the time that
cultures develop significant technology and knowledge, there is this
force that motivates the ruling class to seal away that knowledge for
itself! Also, the ruling classes, pre-industrial revolution despise
technology! They know how to run the game before technology comes
along and makes things complicated.

<a name="knowledge-extinction-events" />

### [Knowledge-Extinction Events](#knowledge-extinction-events)

This is the extreme of the concept discussed in the
[Harnessing the Knowledge Differential](/posts/2016-05-13-facets-of-greatness-knowledge-meta-and-epi.html#harnessing-the-knowledge-differential)
section of
[Facets of Greatness: Meta and Epi](/posts/2016-05-13-facets-of-greatness-knowledge-meta-and-epi.html). Basically,
the ruling class determines that it is possible to create a hard
divide between what they know and what the general population *can*
know. And they destroy all remnants of knowledge except for fragments
which they horde for themselves. It happened several times with the
[Library of Alexandria](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Destruction_of_the_Library_of_Alexandria)
and it happened in China in the Qin dynasty with the
[Burning of Books and Burying of Scholars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_books_and_burying_of_scholars). The
Han Dynasty recorded that the Qin dynasty destroyed the available
knowledge and that scholars were buried alive with their work! See the
[Records of the Grand Historian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Records_of_the_Grand_Historian)
for more info.

These knowledge-extinction events have happened in history time and time
again. And I'm afraid that the centralized point of failure in the
internet (I.E. control of telecom) means that this could happen again!
Mark my words: the possibility is there; the motivation is there; it
could happen again if we don't fucking watch it! Do we all want to end
up living in North Korea? In Libya?! Hell no!

And trust me, there are people who would rather watch the world burn
to the ground than to have the layperson understand specific
inner-workings of the world without initiation. They would rather the
entire world burn to the ground and rebuild it from scratch. I know
what you're thinking: that sounds crazy. But I swear to God, it's
true! Beware these people. And seriously, these same people KNEW that
the internet was going to lead to a situation where bits and pieces of
esoteric knowledge would get out of hand! Beware: "THEY" have planned
for this!

<a name="how-did-man-reach-the-moon" />

### [How Did Man Reach the Moon?](#how-did-man-reach-the-moon)

So, how did man reach the moon? How did we get the technology together
to get to that point? Because of lost documentation, there was
technology used in the Apollo missions that we can't even recreate
today!

I'm going to put forward a euro-centric argument. Yes, I have very
large balls. They are massive, just ask around. Please understand, in
making this argument, that in no way am I saying there is some innate
European genetic superiority! That is absolutely false! Instead, for
some reason, European culture developed a cultural peculiarity, along
with a mixture of geopolitical & economic advantages. Arabians and
Indians developed superior math well before europeans. There was
superior technology available in the far east. Marco Polo didn't even
know how to make ice cream!

IMO, it was this cultural peculiarity of sharing knowledge, coupled
with shared economic incentives and withstanding widespread cultural
invasion. basically, Christianity established a cultural foundation
that both unified Europe and propagated a system of values, while
withstanding invasion long enough to reach the Industrial Revolution.

That's it! If we ask: what "thing" distinguished European culture and
development from the rest of the world? Why did we end up developing?
It was the simple fact that Europeans achieved enough cultural
stability, for whatever reason, to get to the Industrial Revolution
first. That's it, plain and simple. If any other culture had managed
to reach the Industrial Revolution first, they probably would have
lead humanity in a race to the moon. And, again, please keep in mind
that I am *in no way* arguing that either European genetics or
European culture is superior. The former is absolutely false! And the
latter is as well: we are all superior when we retain our cultural
diversity and we learn from each other!

While being unified through Christianity, Europe was also fairly
decentralized, so when we achieved technological innovations, they
could never be horded into one place. In China, there were times when
philosophy and technology were horded by a tiny ruling classes and
this knowledge disappeared entirely from the rest of society. The same
kind of event happened when the Library of Alexandria burned to the
ground. This destroyed the extent of knowledge available to western
society, while allowing some of it to be preserved by the ruling
class. After the Dark Ages, this never again happened in Europe!

# We Landed on the Moon, but Will We Make It to Mars?!

**Again**, if we don't watch it, we're going to see another
knowledge-extinction event happen with the internet.  Just as such
events stagnated regional development in the past, *THIS WILL STAGNATE
OUR DEVELOPMENT!* Except, this time, it will occur on a global scale!

### Next: Philosophy of Censorship

Next in this series, I'll present an epistemological view of
censorship and how it limits our thinking by limiting the scope of
ideas. This kind of censorship has never occured *on a global scale
with totality*. If it occurs today, we risk inheriting a world where
we can't develop beyond a certain point.
