---
title: "Composition in Film: Mise en VR"
categories: blog
tags: "cinematography virtual-reality"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
---

> Streaming video transformed the internet in the past decade. So, for VR, what's
> the equivalent of video and, in particular, streaming video?

So I watched this video on
[composition in storytelling](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvLQJReDhic),
which discussed how directors arrange visual elements for shots. And
this sparked my curiosity on several tangents related to the subject,
including architecture and VR.  Specifically, I want to know how film
composition will change for virtual reality.

I enjoy digging into the process of creating something, whether it's
film, art, shoes, business, technology, whatever.  I can't really help
it. I have to think about the process used to create that product or
piece of art.  Whenever I see an ad, I have to think about the
marketing strategy, branding and business model, even if the business
is boring or obscure.  For many businesses, it's easy to imagine and
describe the processes and kinds of roles necessary.

Since film is an industry with a myriad of industries as dependencies,
thinking about film production usually kicks off more introspection
than is usual for me.  For example, I was watching "Clockwork Orange"
recently.  There was a showing at the Grandin Theater and it was
amazing to see this film for the first time in theaters.  This movie
sparks and drives an internal dialogue in the audience about censorship,
obscenity, the role of constraint and morality in society.  But also it
has a particular style of cinematography, including a perculiar
approach to mise en scene. This got me thinking a lot about how the
director sourced locations for these shots, since there seems to be
subtle iconography in some of these shots, which add to the depth of
the film's overall message.

So, what is the process used to source these shots? And why does it
seem that this style of mise en film is absent from most movies today?
It seems like it would be difficult and time-intensive to arrange
these shots.  And i posit that it's because, unless used properly, it
would usually detract from the film. Most films that have the
mass-appeal to rake in revenue aren't artistic and they just don't
need this technique. Focus on this technique pays off for some films
and some audiences, but not others. It really depends on your market.

### A Mathematic Basis for Mise en Scene

So, what is mise en scene? It's a term in composition that refers to
how the set, actors and cameras coordinate in order to compose the the
visual arrangement of elements on screen. It also applies to theater,
in which case multiple perspectives of the audience need to be taken
into account.  This is why mise en scene in VR will be closer to that
of theater, rather than that of film.  In film, you end up with
having basically composed one moving 2D representation.  Through this,
the audience experiences your vision and derives your message.

However, people are different and, given the same static 2D image,
they will observe different things. Not only will they make different
observations, they will look at entirely different parts of the image.
That's just for a static 2D image.

So what are director's trying to acheive with mise en scene? What are
they trying to optimize? Having studied a bit of neuromarketing -
*it's neuroscience!* - here's the thought that should blow your mind,
as I'm taking something typically considered right-brain and bringing
full-circle to the more analytic left-brain.  I propose that:

> By carefully controlling the arrangement of visual elements, the
> director is trying control the probability distribution, over time,
> of categorized sets of viewers.  This is in an effort to orchestrate
> the experience of diverse categories of audience members.

Sometimes, a picture is worth a thousand words. So here you go. This
is a probability distribution representing where people look in an
image.

#### See? Probability Distribution:

![Eyetracking Sample](/img/posts/2016-02-01-composition-in-film-mise-en-vr/eyetrack-sample.jpg)

### Made You Look!

This is one of the most fundamental elements of composition in
film. If you understand what drives people *to look at something*, you
can set them up to be more likely to pay attention to the right
things.  And in such a controversial film as *A Clockwork Orange*,
with a diverse set of viewers, many of whom are disgusted at what is
happening on screen, then utilizing mise en scene is critical in
coordinating their experience.  Many of these viewers would otherwise
be reviling in disgust and looking away, completely missing some
critical aspect of your message.  Imagine if someone watched the first
30 minutes of this film and left.  Being able to anticipate the visual
reaction of homogenous set of viewers is hard.  Being able to control
the experiences of a diverse audience is masterful.

As stated in the video at the top of the article, Alfred Hitchcock
once famously stated that the size of an object on screen should
reflect its importance to the film. And why is that?  Circling back
to my statement that a director is trying to control the likelyhood of
a viewer paying attention to the right things, then by increasing the
size of someone on screen, then it makes a few things more
likely. First, it becomes more likely that someone would begin to look
at that object and continue to look at it.  Second, it emphasizes
details in that object.  Third, in some viewers with a critical mind,
this may cause them to reflect on the object's size in relation to
other on screen objects.  But, like i said, your audience is diverse
and you can't count on all people to understand such critical facets
of film.

Other factors you can use to influence a viewers attention include
such visual hacks as contrast, focus, blur, color and especially
motion. To understand how to apply these visual hacks, you really need
to understand what drives attention in the human mind, as well as how
we process visual information. These visual hacks can also
detract. This is why mugging is so annoying.  Mugging is when an actor
purposely diverts attention, typically utilizing motion. People can
only pay attention to one thing. For an actor with a small part,
mugging can be tempting because they can try to get a bit more
attention on screen or whatever. Fortunately, everyone knows this
trick.  Actually, your goal is to play the viewers attention to where
it is intended.  Do this and you'll be far better off.

Great, I've digressed into offering my amateur take.

### Composition and Architecture

I will get to VR, but first, I'll take a detour. **Logistics.** That's
the dimension that I find so fascinating about so many subjects that
others seem to miss.  I like to deconstruct the topic I'm assessing by
expounding on the logistic processes required. So, in this case, I'm
thinking about how Stanley Kubrick sourced the locations for his
shots. Obviously, the guy read the book *A Clockwork Orange* and
obviously, he studied the work to understand what it meant and what it
could mean.

> How do you go from that starting point to having a fully fledged
> vision for a film that will spend eternity on most top 100 lists?

Not actually going to attempt to answer this question.  What's the
process used to enumerate and evaluate locations for a movie like
this? I'm sure there's a storyboard involved early on, but the
location will significantly change what can be planned in a
storyboard. The location itself creates constraints on camera shots
that can be used.

In the video that sparked this blog post, there was a particularly
good example of a shot at
[12:30](https://youtu.be/CvLQJReDhic?t=12m17s) that contrasts the
sizes of two characters, disrupting the visual balance of the
image. With the imbalanced shot in this example, the point is to
convey a lack of control for one character and a sense of conflict
between them.

However, in order to set up this shot in particular, the layout and
floor plan of the house itself was important.  A similar shot might be
constructed in any house, but the layout enabled the cameras to be
positioned so that the size of the characters on screen would be in
line with the tone of the events onscreen.

### Sourcing Locations and Cyclical Iteration

So, sourcing locations for film seems to be critical for mise en
scene.  There are certain aspects of the story, the plot and dynamics
of the characters that you want to convey through image
composition. The director needs to decide what to express via image
composition and mise en scene, when first storyboarding.

This planning in storyboarding likely happens at the same time
locations are being identified. However, knowing what kind of shots
you want to frame for individual scenes is crucial in deciding
locations for these scenes.

And so there's a bit of a circular dependency there, which is similar
to one that happens when producing a song that features lyrics.  Do
you construct the beat first?  And overlay the lyrics?  Or do you
write the lyrics first and then write the beat to emphasize the
lyrical delivery?  The answer is that you do both, though a few
cyclical iterations.  You develop a bit on the beat, maybe that
inspires some lyrics, that flow to that beat in particular.  The
lyrics you're developing fit the beat your working on and that's
crucial.  Then once you've finished the lyrics, you rearrange sections
of the beat to match the lyrical delivery, which takes a lot of studio
time.  If you're just working with a track that bought rights for via
some producer you don't know, you probably can't really rearrange
parts of the beat.  That's shit by the way, especially if it means you
can't master the track that you're rapping over.

But cyclically iterating on location and image composition in film can
be incredibly expensive, especially if you need to travel to distant
locations to evaluate them and plan shots. And this is a very
complicated optimization problem, which is why it's interesting to me.
It is more convoluted if you're evaluating a location that is used
for multiple scenes or for a majority of film content.  That location
needs to be capable of providing a variety of scenarios that provide
possibilities for applying compositional techniques, while remaining
visually compelling.

And so, when storyboarding, I'm guessing that many shots can be
planned in a generic manner.  The "Composition in Storytelling" video
mentions *composition templates.* They are invaluable in reducing the
complexity of this problem.  These can be extrapolated from existing
works.  Compositional templates can be employed in a storyboard and
are then easily be modified to fit a location's constraints.  For
example, the order and angle of camera shots could be generically
planned out for a scene, then slightly adapted once the location
has be set.  However, being able to think about this before choosing
the location is invaluable, logistically.

And I haven't even touched on negotiating the legal rights to use a
particular location.  I can only imagine the work that went into
locking down Times Square for Vanilla Sky. I've had that dream
before. Swear to God. Scouts honor.

> Idea: an algorithm for analyzing building layouts to determine
> composition possibilities would be useful in narrowing down a list
> of locations.

Buildings with unique architecture are great locations for creating
visually striking imagery. Yet when such iconic locations have been
used in such a way that contributes to mise en scene, this reduces the
likelihood that such a building would be chosen again. This mostly
only applies when the film is very popular or critically acclaimed and
the imagery created is unmistakable.

However, on the other hand, there are some locations that I've seen
crop up on screen time after time. In particular, there's a skating
rink in LA that's used for most shots of roller skating that appear in
movies and TV for the past few decades. So besides its location in LA,
what makes this rink a good location for film?

Are there some buildings like this which were design, at least in some
part, with film composition in mind? If so, this is likely a
phenomenon confined to LA, but to what extent would architects design
floor plans with this in mind? Have people studied floor plans and
schematics used for critically acclaimed films?  Or at least studied
floor plans to methodically determine what offers the best shots?

It seems that film does affect architecture in LA, at least at a macro
level. Based on how spread out LA is, it seems like the development of
LA was controlled and restricted in the early and mid-20th century
through the implementation of building codes.  Otherwise, IMO there
would be more urban centers.

### Composition in Computer Generated Works

Because limitations seem to enhance creativity, Pixar would have a
much more complex problem in designing the composition for shots.
While you're not restricted by the constraints of a location,
designing a scene for computer generated movies involves adding in
tons of details.

Changes to these scenes would be expensive in terms of time. So when
these computer generated scenes are designed, these general image
composition rules are likely taken into account and composition
templates are employed. The storyboards are constructed around rough
sketches of scenes and minor details are added later on.  If high
detail is added early on, this significantly increases render times
and unnecessarily lengthens the feedback loop.

### How Does Image Composition Change for 3D Movies?

3D cameras and 3D movies offer a plethora of interesting methods that
obliterate subtle constraints of film.  For example, mirrors are a
serious problem in scene design and restrict camera placement.  It's
not a problem with 3D movies though.  This is just one example of
constraints of 3D film that are just non-existent in 3D.  However,
these new techniques require equipment, planning and time, which
complicate the logistic process of producing scenes.

3D also transends some location-based limitations.  You can overwrite
any sections of the scene by modeling the scene in 3D.  So if the
location for a scene has a visual element that detracts from the
composition, you can remove it.  Or extend it.  Or modify it.

There are also tools with 3D film that enable you to alter visual
expression of objects in frame.  For example, if you've read in a 3D
mesh that represents the structure of a 3D object, you can easily
manipulate those objects in 3D.  A great example of this is lighting.
With 3D film, you can alter the lighting of objects.  You can add
lighting for specific objects that isn't cast on others, like you're
Michelangelo.  This creates unique effects on mise en scene, focusing
your viewers attention on elements that confuse their subconscious
mind with impossible lighting, attracting their attention.

Additionally, you can control the perspective and viewing frustum at
render time, applying different perspective parameters to various
objects.  Again, creating slight distortion that a viewer's mind knows
to be impossible, causing their attention to be directed in an
unconscious manner.  It's about breaking the mind's model of reality,
forcing the subconscious to reevaluate something that seems so real in
all but one or two dimensions. And yet the experience clearly violates
some constraint of the mind's model of reality.  This drives a
phenomenon known as a
[schema](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10400419.2014.901061)
[violation](http://psp.sagepub.com/content/40/8/959.abstract), which
has been extensively studied in relation to intelligence.

> Idea: there is no reason why 3D film must be digital first. Creating
> an analog 3D camera should be possible.  Although in most cases,
> the recording would be converted into digital and combined with
> digital elements at some point.  But there's no reason a 3D movie
> could not be produced analog all the way through. Doing so would
> require specialized cameras.

### VR x Streaming Video

Ahhh finally, we've arrived.  Virtual Reality.  How do the rules of
composition change for VR? This is a difficult question because we
still don't know how VR will develop as a medium of
expression. Obviously 3D movies will take off on VR, but IMO that
detached experience might be a bit jarring to a viewer.  And there's
the problem of sharing the experience of watching a 3D movie in VR.
This is a software problem that's going to present the consumer with
lots of unwanted complexity.

I want to repeat the question I stated at the beginning of the article:

> Streaming video transformed the internet in the past decade. So, for
> VR, what's the equivalent of video and, in particular, streaming
> video?

This question allows me to think about VR in such a different way
because I feel like there is something we are missing about it.  We're
defining VR based on our notions of film and video games today.  But
IMO, the general public's perception of VR today is wildly distorted.
So much is just not feasible because of constraints imposed by UI/UX,
cost, hardware and software.  But the business, hardware and software
challenges faced by VR/AR is addressed in a pending article.

I personally think that the lack of constraint in VR will prevent the
development of one universal medium.  That is, there may be no
development of an equivalent like film, which is a 2D medium that has
clearly stated and universally adopted standards describing it's ratio
and framerate.  Because of the divergent nature of the types of
experience offered by VR, it doesn't seem like one of these experience
types will establish itself as the universal.

This will certainly be true until 2020. Given time, if there is some
universal medium for the expression of art and experiences that
emerges, it should become obvious by 2020.  We would certainly be
well-rewarded by studying the evolution of cinema and video and the
beginning of the 20th century.  In particular, looking at unsuccessful
offshoots in this time: what experimental techniques did people
attempt that failed and why?

### How Does Image Composition Change for VR?

If the point of mise en scene in 2D is to control the probability
distribution of your audience, how do you achieve the same objective
in VR, especially if you can't control the perspective and orientation
of the audience. This overwhelming complexity of the VR
medium, does this lack of limitation actually limit the capacity of
film in the VR medium to convey a consistent message to viewers? And
how does the convoluted nature of a medium of the future affect it's
consumer adoption and rate of adoption?

Or does the complexity only seem overwhelming because I'm tightly
coupling 360 VR video to film?  Perhaps this complexity will be
reduced by the exploration of pioneering artists that discover new
forms of expression and new composition templating techniques.

> This is what excites me about VR. It's new.  It's unexplored.  There
> are no rules and it's up to someone to discover those rules and
> write them.  This is a huge opportunity for someone to make their
> mark.  Realizing that this kind of opportunity exists and that
> basically no one else can see it excites me in a very primal, almost
> sexual way.

So, for 360 3D VR video, as a director, how do you control the
experience of your audience, especially if you can't count on their
orientation and perspective?  As a viewer, how does this added freedom
to look around affect your understanding and feedback from viewing a
static experience.  It seems like it'd be strange to view a static
360 video experience while being able to move around.

An analogy can really help to ground the exploration of an unfamiliar
subject. The cinematography for 360 VR Video is to that of video as
cinematography of video is to photography.  Whereas photography is
fixed in time and lacks motion, cinematography needs to take these
into account, although photography technically does subtly deal with
motion. Going from 2D video to 360 VR Video similarly requires adding
the 'dimension' of the viewer's orientation.  The viewer's capacity to
move adds another dimension to the medium.

### A Statistical Model for Directing Focus

So in order to understand how controlling the probability distribution
of the focus of our many viewers aids in crafting an experience, it
may be of benefit to return to the mathematics-inspired analogies. It
may seem Daedalian, I know. I hope you'll excuse my tendency to reach
for math and other abstract, hard to understand concepts, but doing so
really does help me reason about this stuff.

So. In general, how does added dimensionality affect a problem?
Personally, I need more understanding to answer this question,
especially if I were to apply it to the problem at hand. However, I
can say that increased dimensionality can complicate a problem space,
but also simplify it as well.  Here, dimensionality doesn't refer to
typical Euclidean dimensions of space, but to the range of options
available to the artists.  It's instead a widely increased
feature-space.

The reason I'm mentioning math here is because it's a means of
methodically developing knowledge of VR as a medium. If you understand
how to combinate through the various permutations of VR as a medium
and comprehend how each one functionally differs, then you can foresee
how each would be useful as a medium of expression. Math really isn't
the only way to come to understand this and it's too esoteric for
most, but it works for me.

But think about it: there's lots of opportunities here and not just
for the artist.  If you understand how these variations of VR
expression will develop and how consumers will approach the industry,
the you can anticipate demand for products.  Step 3: Profit

### Differentiation in VR Media

All content in VR will be stereoscopic 3D.  The forms of media
available in VR can be differentiated by the degree of freedom
available to the viewer, player or user.  There will be uniform,
serial experiences, like a film, where the viewer streams the exact
same content as someone else. But the degree of freedom determines how
the audience members could perceive it differently.

Another degree of freedom can be added to a serial experience and
that's position.  The viewer can move around and experience the work
from various positions.  IMO, I just don't think the benefits outweigh
the increased complexity and diluted 'bandwidth' of either 360 3D
video and video where the viewer controls the position.

And a final degree of freedom can be added, by removing the temporal
requirement of serial media.  By serial, I mean like a type of medium
where the content is streamed, but each viewer receives exactly the
same content.  Another form of medium can be created, which is like a
cross between a video game and a movie.  It's like an event-driven
experience, where you are allowed to proceed through the story at your
own pace.  The characters on screen react to events you trigger,
though you may or may not be part of the story or acknowledged by
characters on screen.

This seems to resolve some of the problems described above, but
introduces a major problem: how would you experience this with a
friend. Though, I suppose you could configure the experience to be
streamed to a group, but it still raises a lot of questions.  Among
them: why wouldn't you just play a video game?

Yet, I still don't think I've described a medium which would become
the streaming media of VR.  And that's because I believe that will
be moreso part of AR and that our preconceived notion of VR is more
of a red herring.

### Guiding the Experience of Your Audience

So, what tools are available to reduce the complexity of VR? Most of
the techniques used to guide the audience's experience here will be
based on anticipating their reaction to events onscreen, then
guiding it towards the next intended point of focus, using strong
sensory signals.

3D audio is a good example of a technique that can help direct the
focus of your audience.  3D microphones have recently been developed,
specifically to capture audio for Oculus Rift and 360 3D movies.  This
kind of audio is going to require complicated new software tools as
well as new techniques. Using binaural audio cues, one can direct the
viewer towards an anticipated focal point.

#### A 3D Binaural Microphone

![3D Microphone](/img/posts/2016-02-01-composition-in-film-mise-en-vr/binaural-3d-mic.jpg)

Another interesting technique would be to use lots of POV shots in 360
3D video.  So, you would switch from character to character, at times,
I guess.  Actually, the more I write about this, the more limiting it
all seems.  AR is going to be way more interesting, but much harder
to achieve technologically.

The most useful tools for understanding the process for creating the
best VR experiences? Data & analytics. Any VR video platform should
incorporate data collection to assist in analyzing user response. This
will be invaluable in understanding how to create art in VR.

### Problems with Composition in VR

It's difficult to create a consistent experience when your audience is
free to move their head around in VR. How do you arrange the scene, to
get the perfect shot, if a viewer might not even be looking? More
importantly, why would you bother with aspects of mise en scene, if
they're just going to be overlooked? Does that mean that many typical
techniques will no longer be utilized?

Some techniques could be proposed to fix aspects of 360 video.  You
could force the viewpoint to move/snap to a point for important scenes.
But IMO, that's going to feel jarring to the viewer.  If you're going
to allow the freedom to look around, then you're going to have to be
more creative than that.

The order of and transition between camera shots will be another
problem.  With 360 video, how do you resolve where the user is looking
when transitioning to the next camera shot?  Do you transition to the
next scene, but oriented towards where they *were* looking. Or towards
where they should be looking in the next scene, albeit with their head
oriented in the previous direction? The latter won't work at all after
multiple scene transitions.  The former's not exactly a solution either,
as the director can't really anticipate where someone would be looking
before the transition.

A subtle technique in film is to attract the viewer's attention to a
point, then transition to the next shot, so that their point of focus
still remains in the point where they are most likely to look.  This
is fucking gold in advertising. You can use motion to ensure that, in
the next shot, the viewer is looking right at the brand name.  You
can't really do this with 360 video.

### VR x Theater

Congratulations.  You made it.  I don't know how, but here you are.

This is a cross of VR and Theater, as in live theater.  This starts
out pretty cool, but gets way cooler with the advent of AR, around
2018.  Think of a virtual hangout, where you can watch people perform.

> Uhh... not Twitch, it's not Twitch, although they're perfectly
> positioned to capitalize on this.

Actors could perform live theater in front of a virtual audience. As a
viewer, you could render yourself among a huge audience or just with
your friends.

Integration of AR techniques is where this starts to get really
awesome.  Imagine being in a live Pixar production.  The actors could
be interacting with motion sensing equipment and perhaps experiencing
the VR themselves.

### In Summary

What is the universal medium of expression for VR that will be the
equivalent of film?  Again, what's the equivalent of streaming video
in VR?  Both of these are difficult to pin down.

3D video will certainly take off.  360 video might just be more of a
feature than a format, assuming your 3D video is rendered for variable
perspective.  There will undoubtedly be a variety of novel forms of
expression through VR, but most will derive their value from novelty.

VR is infinitely more valuable to games and simulations than video.
For video, VR complicates way too much.  It requires more investment
and more process in a film production.  There's already enough of
that.  IMO, plot, background and characters are the most important
aspects of a story.  Far more crucial than the video, sound or
graphical medium, although they certainly important.
