---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: Of God and Atheisms"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "Equiped With the Wisdom of Dozens of Generations"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Which part of the beauty of this world did you miss? Did you take a
look at that sapphiric jewel floating in the massive expanse of ether?
Did you stop to think that the only reason we can begin to fathom the
infinite, magnificent expanse of our universe is because the universe
began to reflect intangible metaphysical artifacts and imbued star
dust with the potential to become self-aware.  Over the course of
billions of years, the universe evoked forms through which it could
wonder in awe of it's own beauty."
---

Atheisms, plural, because if atheism isn't a religion or even a belief
system, then each atheism must necessarily be it's own thing.  Thus,
"atheisms." Of all of the arguments presented by atheists, that is the
one that gets under my skin because it really can't be countered and
it shields atheism from criticism by definition. As I claimed in the
first section, atheism is moreso the inversion of a religion, one that
totally disregards the capacity and qualities of the human mind.

Religion equips us with the wisdom of dozens of generations -- and
yet, it's outright rejected by most atheists. Again, atheism is the
inversion of religion; it is the attempted obliteration of the
foundations of such belief systems. And it does so while saying that
it is the absence of any belief system. Ok, but where does that leave
us?

## Atheism is Misguided

I believe atheism is misguided. IMO, athiests say there's no room for
God because it has been shown or can be shown that there is no
God. The facts do not permit it. That is often the basis of their
religion of rejection of religion. In my opinion, that is so
incredibly arrogant.  How can anyone say that they have personally
looked for God under every rock and sifted through all the sand on
every beach and found nothing?  If you say that you have looked and
found nothing, I would say that you haven't looked at all.

Look around, breath in, real deep ... hold it ... hold it, push down
with your diaphram ... and now let go.  Did you not just feel the
benefits of an atmosphere that just so happens to be perfect for
life? Life is so amazingly complex that I cannot imagine a universe
just randomly assembled by chance. It might not by an old dude in a
robe, sitting on a cloud in sandals, but to say that you can dismiss
any possibility of God is incredibly arrogant.  To me, the more I
look, the more I learn, the more I confirm the existence of God.

### Life & The Universe Are Infinite Metaphysical Reflections

IMO, life evolves through a stochastic process of innumerable events
to reflect harmony with and self-similarity to certain intangible
metaphysical forms and entities. In other words, we were made to
reflect God's image. So, no, you might not be able to see that, but
you said you had looked everywhere, right?

Which part of the beauty of this world did you miss? Did you take a
look at that sapphiric jewel floating in the massive expanse of ether?
Did you stop to think that the only reason we can begin to fathom the
infinite, magnificent expanse of our universe is because the universe
began to reflect intangible metaphysical artifacts and imbued star
dust with the potential to become self-aware.  Over the course of
billions of years, the universe evoked forms through which it could
wonder in awe of it's own beauty.

### Religion Is Harmful?

Anyways, I think it's a bit myopic to view zero possibility and zero
value in religion. Other atheists make the argument that there is no
value and that religion has damaged humanity by fueling conflict over
millenia. Those people at least acknowledge the power of the belief
systems established by religion, but apparently completely missed all
the good that it has accomplished. IMO, humanity is neither inherently
good or evil. But the conflict you're referencing is the product of
humanity, not a particular religion.

And what should we replace such religions with?  What happens in
countries which force atheism? What do they replace it with?
State-worship and cult-of-personality, which is essentially a
religion.  They simply disempower any belief systems which might
provide competition, then create their own. So, is that a better
world, where a man can declare himself king and god in order to more
efficiently rule his country? By creating whatever rules he sees fit
to project through state-worship? I'd prefer a world that worships an
imaginary flying spaghetti monster, if such a being simply and clearly
enumerated a list of rules that remained constant for millenia.

### There Is No Man Above Him

That is one of the aspects that I admire about Christianity. Jesus
declares himself to be "King of kings and Lord of lords." And this
means there is no person on earth, whether a pauper or emperor, who
could challenge the authority of what is written in the New
Testament. That for two millenia, even the most powerful rulers would
be bound to adhere to such a clearly stated set of rules. Ethics and
laws which could never change on the whim of a tyrant. And which
could be used to hold such tyrants accountable for transgressions
against a set of laws which no man could question.

Furthermore, the only reason Western Civilization arrived to any kind
of modern age was through unity behind the establishment of such
beliefs. Through the chaos of medieval Europe, would it have been
possible to promulgate any such belief system capable of generating
the stability required for the Renaissance and the Enlightenment? Just
look at the geography of Europe. We have been fighting an uphill
battle since the incursions of Darius I and Xerxes I.

### Conflict: Economics, Resource Distribution and Geography

Geography and resource distribution have determined conflict since far
before the emergence of religion. These two factors have cursed and
blessed cultures around the world and continue to drive world
conflict. Throughout history, Empires rose and fell based on the
locations of valuable resources, along with the maintainence and
defense of the trade routes that emerged and shifted.  So, actually,
economics and bad luck have encouraged conflict to a much greater
extent than religion.

And hopefully, we soon reach a place in history where it's possible to
move beyond war. I hope we find a place where our childrend and
grandchildren don't have firsthand experience of war. Yet, that's also
a very dangerous place to be, isn't it? When a nation or generation is
completely unfamiliar with the consequences and tactics of war, for
which there truly are no rules, how can they cope? When they've become
detached from the motivation to remain strong, where does that leave
them if conflict emerged?

### Restructuring Expression of Conflict

As for war, I hope that we continue to wage our conflicts that
redirect tensions to be expressed through economic
competition. Conflicts between nations should be determined by how
hard their citizens can work and by how much a nation can help raise
the developing world.  We should utilize game theory to encourage
cooperation of influential nations to, instead of resorting to
competition by armed conflict, redirect our energy into stemming
third-world injustice and raising those nations to be
self-sufficient.

On the other hand, it is improvident, expensive and dangerous to
empower those who harbor dangerous sentiment towards a nation who is
trying to help. And while plenty of nations judge the United States
for interfering and causing conflict out of self-interest, that
couldn't be further from the truth. What do other nations do around
the world? China is helping to develop various areas in Africa. And
there are countless other examples. But to think that the world is
going to get any better by ignoring injustice is ignorant.  And to
bash America for it's incredibly expensive history of doing so makes
me irate, honestly.

### Atheist Evangelibots

What does this have to do with religion? Basically, an army of
facebook atheists and bots embroiling believers into fruitless
arguments over religion is not only wasteful and insensible, it slowly
chips away at foundational aspects of our culture. These aspects help
to establish, declare and propagate shared values systems in the
diverse culture of America. By slowly eating away at this foundation,
especially in the younger generation, this makes us weaker because
atheists don't seek to replace the belief systems they disrupt with
anything else that fulfills the roles provided by religions. And don't
get me wrong: I don't mean to dictate to atheists what they should or
should not believe. Yet, it seems obvious to me that atheists
disregard the value provided on religion, based on fallacious,
emotional or myopic arguments ... some of the exact same points they
use to deride about religion.

## Refuting Atheist Arguments

### The Facts Say Religion Is Not True

Science is constantly changing: what is true today may not be
tomorrow.  So where is your truth? And did you bother looking closely
enough at religious text to actually examine everything that could be
asserted as true or false?  Or did you gloss over the surface and
decide that one fact didn't fit with your worldview, therefore it must
all be false?

### Religion Seeds Conflict

Just covered this one earlier. While it can be shown that, yes, many
conflicts have been driven by religion, weakening the
value-propagating function of religion in society without replacing it
with anything, leads to demoralization and disrupts the viability of
widely-shared value systems.

### Religious People Are Judgemental

By insulting the right of adherents to choose their own way in life,
especially with this argument, you're also insulting the sacrifices
they make to adhere to such a way of life. By practicing religion and
remaining faithful to it, someone is restricting their actions by
adopting a moral code. And people who refrain from, in particular,
pleasurable activities their religion declares immoral, have every
right to be proud of the life they lead. And there are reasons behind
the rules they follow. It takes a lot of effort to do so and they have
every right to be proud of it, without letting that pride cloud their
vision. At the same time, they should be accepting and tolerant
towards people of other faiths.

### Religion Leads to Bad Policy

So does bad science. IMO, science itself should be considered a
religion because the belief systems extrapolated from current
understanding are just as formative in the belief systems of the
acolytes of science. Science can easily lead to dangerous utilitarian
policy, since it doesn't typically lead to strong definitions of
ethics.

### Religious Beliefs Are Outdated

By definition, the Scientific Method that requires
that science constantly challenge itself to progress, implies that
science is constantly in flux.  So, not only does it create belief
structures, just like a religion, it's constantly in cyclic flux,
invalidating itself and the belief systems of it's followers. Yet, it
doesn't necessarily propagate the new beliefs to those followers.
This can sow the seeds of a cultural rift between generations.

### Relgious Beliefs Are Vulnerable to Exploitation

More to the point, this flux creates an opportunity for
exploitation. Whoever funds the science exerts control of the flux
from one paradigm to the next.  The control resides with the few with
the resources to do so.  And the vulnerability for exploitation is
powerful, as the decisions of lawmakers are often based on the current
extent of mainstream scientific knowledge, with the best intentions in
mind. IMO, I'd rather have policy decisions based on something
unchanging, like humanist values. At the same time, I don't think it's
a good idea for people to entirely base public policy on religion.

### Arguments Not Based On Propositional Logic

Ok, this is fair, but it's also my personal favorite. I somehow got in
an argument with someone on Facebook about atheism, where he was
berating me for arguing that religion has value, regardless of its
scientific provability. Ok, the argument was heated and we were both
berating each other. I made most of the counter arguments above, but
he asserted that I knew nothing of propositional logic. Again, this
was fair because my argument didn't actually hold under propositional
logic. I acknowledged this and he immediately incurred an aneurism.  I
then introduced category theory and higher-order logic, which he knew
nothing about. He then countered by blocking me on Facebook. I think
it's because I won. Often the value and sometimes the truth in
religion isn't found at the surface.

## Part 3: My Beliefs

In the final part of this series, I describe some of my own
beliefs. I'm in the odd position of arguing on the behalf of organized
and unorganized religion, yet I'd miss the target if I didn't bother
specifying some of my own beliefs and values, which are derived from
learning about world religions, from gnosticism and theosophy, and
from self-discovery.
