---
title: "Illegal Immigration: National Security Debt"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- synonyms for tension & ethnic tension

My passion for this issue stems from a concern for the struggle that
illegal immigrants face in this country along with foresight on how
this problem grows over time. *It's National Security Debt.*

Illegal immigration is a serious long-term issue. Not to be alarmist,
but it's a bit of a powder keg. The further we let it go on, the worse
it gets. Regardless of who's side you're on, you need to hear me out.
The truth is, there aren't "sides" on this issue; it is painful for
everyone involved!

First of all, if you strongly disagree with this article, then I want
you to reach out to me. But I also want you to read Sun Tzu's Art of
War. It's free. It's short. Read one with some commentary or
something. You can probably read it in an hour or two. Read that and
then tell me about how I'm wrong.

### Illegal Immigration Hurts, Whether You Are:

#### &#x2605; From A Family with Four Hundred Year Old Roots in America

#### &#x2605; The Child of Immigrant Parents Who Struggled to Get Here

#### &#x2605; Part of a Family Who Illegally Crossed into America Chasing Opportunity

In 5,000 words or less, I'm going to provide you with the realest
summary of why it's a painful issue for everyone involved. You'll be
able to empathize with what illegal immigrants are going through in
this country. I'm going to try to describe what that's like, but I
don't actually know any illegal immigrants, so you'll have to forgive
me for that. And as much as you can try to put yourself in someone
else's shoes, you'll never truly know how that feels until you're
there.

#### Illegal Immigration Indicates a Failure of Border Security

Furthermore, I'll elaborate on how illegal immigration contributes to
other problems the country is facing. It's an indication of a failure
of border security. I'll discuss the challenges facing a resolution of
illegal immigration. These include challenges that are cultural,
financial, strategic or political. For example, publicly announcing
the policy details will change behavior. If we say "Free amnesty!
Citizenship for anyone for three months," what do you think that will
do? People might rush the border.

#### We can't solve this problem until we prevent people from entering the country illegally

Amnesty doesn't exactly solve the problem, by the way. People can
still come here illegally, so what does that do anyways? The debate on
this issue is ridiculous. This is why we need a wall. I hate the
!@#$ing wall, but we need it. The wall is mostly a symbol, by the
way. I don't care what the !@#$ it is, so long as it means that the
number of people crossing the border slows to a trickle.

## Why is it Challenging?

### Future Consequences of a Poor Policy

### Longterm Ethnic Tension is Agony

### Why Don't People Act?

### Why Should You Care?

### Who Feels this Problem and Why?

- each class

### Why has it been so Hard to Resolve?

# Problems Related to Illegal Immigration

### (1-15)

# What are the Answers?

<a name="illegal-immigration-is-painful-for-everyone" />

# [Illegal Immigration is Painful for Everyone](#illegal-immigration-is-painful-for-everyone)

Illegal immigration is an issue where everyone is affected, regardless
of how it personally affects you. It's an issue where everyone should
want to pursue policy changes for their own benefit. Instead, the
debate in this country frames the discussion in terms of race and
ethnicity. This is counterproductive because there are domestic
policy changes would would be beneficial for everyone, even the people
here illegally! And my motivation for writing this is partly derived
from my concern for the problems they face.

In an oversimplification, I'm going to divide families and people
living in America into four classes of citizenship. There are those
who have been citizens since the Baby Boomer generation or
before. Next, there are American families who have been citizens since
or after Generation X. These are more recent immigrants. Third, there
are immigrants working or studying in the country on a visa. I would
include those staying on an expired visa in this class. Finally, there
are illegal immigrants, who entered the country illegally.

Again, an oversimplification, but our domestic policies towards
illegal immigration affect each set differently.

Why draw this distinction between families who have been here since
the sixties and those who are more recent immigrants? Aren't we all
equally US Citizens? In the eyes of the law, yes. For all intensive
purposes, yes. I'm not arguing some people are more American and
others are less American. However, this issue is nuanced in regard to
various demographics.

### Citizens Since or Before the Baby Boomer Generation

These are families that have been in America for around three or more
generations. These families have deeper roots and are well connected
in their local communities. This means they have well-established
support networks to lean on when things go wrong.

- +3 generation americans (roots in america since baby-boomer
  generation)
  - making this distinction b/w recent immigrants and long time
    citizens is important because their lives are a bit different
    - people who have been here for a long time have deep roots
    - large support networks when things go wrong. they probably
      know a few dozen family members, possibly in their own
      city

### Citizens Since or After Generation X


- people who just became citizens might not have such extensive
  roots. when things go wrong, it might be harder for them to
  reach out.
      - or, if they are feeling the effects ethnic discrimination,
        when they're citizens and have been, how do you think that's
        going to make these people feel?
        - if effects from such treatment are serious, that further
          isolates families who would probably otherwise be very
          patriotic!
        - remember, these are people who worked hard to find
          a way to get here. they came to america for a reason, even
          though it was tough.

Language can sometimes present a barrier for first generation
citizens, but that's eased over time. Still, it can present
challenges, making it harder to reach out.
- Combined with a more limited network,



### Immigrants on Visa (title)

    - legal immigrants working on a visa/etc
      - these may be the least integrated people. i've been in a
        similar position, where i was living in a place and i didn't
        know anyone. and i went through serious problems. it was tough
        being alone and i know that no one wanted me to succeed.
        - and there were other times I was in a new place and I met
          some really amazing people. and they knew i had just moved a
          dozen or more hours away from home, where i didn't know
          anyone.
        - and instead of waiting for me to make the first move, they
          worked hard to make me feel comfortable. they made sure i
          was included and wanted to get to know me. i'll never forget
          what that feels like and i've been there several times too.
      - so, which experience would you prefer? if we could make one
        or the other experience happen more often in this country,
        which should it be?
    - this should include people who are here because they overstayed
      their visa or whatever.
    - mention that these immigrants help strengthen our economy
      - they fill in gaps for skills we lack
    - help contribute to diverse culture.
      - diversity is the thing that sets america apart

## Illegal Immigrants

    - illegal immigrants
      - they are perhaps the worst off in this whole situation.
      - the policies at the state and federal level seek to punish
        employers for hiring illegal immigrants. this makes sense, but
        it has the unintended consequence of making things tough for
        people who just wanted a better life. and they were willing to
        risk themselves and their families to seek out the American
        Dream.
      - so it's tough out there for people who are here illegally.

  - btw, illegal immigrants are criminals, by definition
      - but this statement doesn't actually make any judgements about
        their character
      - by definition someone labelled as an "illegal immigrant" must
        have committed the crime of entering the country illegally
    - most of these people of good character and only came here for one
      of the following reasons:
      - fleeing bad circumstances in latin america or south america
      - to pursue the american dream for themselves or their children



Unfortunately, the effects from illegal immigration affect people
differently along generational and ethnic lines. Hispanic families
who've been here since the sixties may feel much differently about
policies than those who immigrated here in the nineties. But both
families may feel the effects of misappropriated prejudice ... as if
prejudice could ever be properly appropriated.

As more people illegally cross into America, the effects of this issue
and those nuanced responses to it become more pronounced. It stirs up
tensions in America along ethnic boundaries, causing people who are
long-time US citizens to get hurt for no good reason at all. Our own
citizens are redirecting the tension on themselves, further straining
tensions along ethnic boundaries.

A third party can approach this issue in an obtuse manner to
demoralize us, using it as rhetoric against America. When it's career
suicide to mistakenly state a single politically incorrect phrase, the
discussion stagnates on this issue and others. There's a good reason
for strong response to insensitive and politically incorrect
statements. But, in a democracy, silencing that discussion can enable
internal and external factions to stifle change. It prevents America
from responding to America's problems.

For illegal immigration, lack of dialogue here means failure to act on
an issue that should be simple to fix. Over the course of decades,
this leads to serious problems. In and of itself, the issue isn't that
big of a deal. Downstream, inaction with this specific issue
intensifies problems described later on. Those downstream problems are
issues that foreign powers can subtly use to further demoralize and
destabilize America by highlighting ethnic tensions.

Read [Diversity is America's Strength](/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength.html)

# Why is it Challenging?

Why is it such a hard problem to tackle? Honestly, America has way
bigger problems *at the moment*. Yet, the more time passes, the harder
this becomes to resolve. The solutions will be more expensive and
tensions will be higher, stagnating policy change.

## The Debate Isn't Structured Properly

The illegal immigration debate in America is messy. The PC police
prevent people from making specific statements. Without those
statements you can't complete a coherent arguement to relay to the
public. Without the public being aware of how this problem impacts us
in 2025, if unmitigated, then we can't move forward on it in a
democracy.

For the most part, it's great that people are restrained from making
statements that could lead to ethnic tension. However, that's not the
case if blacklisting specific propositions of an argument restrains us
from implementing the right public policy. This is especially true
*when inaction otherwise leads to a drastically worse situation*.

## The Pros Don't Outweigh the Cons

There just aren't enough perceived benefits to justify the cost in
political capital from either side. We were entirely focused on health
care from 2008 through 2014. Since Ferguson, everyone's been focused
on the BlackLivesMatter protests and mounting tensions between
countries. And 2016 has been completely defined news so tragically
shocking and weird that I question the nature of reality every single
day. I'm pretty smart. If I can't figure out what the fuck is going
on...

Basically, combined with ever-restrictive, silently pervasive filter
bubbles in social media, this atmosphere in the media furthers an
already languishing debate. On illegal immigration. On any issue. This
trend has fully materialized in the past few months. We'll never get
anywhere with this debate. People don't understand that the problem
gets worse as time goes on.

But yet, AFAIK, democrats want to trade respect for law and
immigration procedures for a dozen million new votes via amnesty,
without building a wall. How's that gonna work? Oh... more votes. I
get it.

However, if being "tolerant" means tiptoeing around immigration and if
it's racist to say that there are people in this country who came here
illegally, how the !@#$ are we going to resolve these problems? And if
you supposedly stand opposed to intolerance and racism, I hate to tell
you, but your inaction here is going to make those problems worse!

The lack of incentive to solve is precisely why illegal immigration is
so dangerous. It's subtle. It wasn't addressed in the late nineties
and it was basically a hot potato in the aughties.

## Lackluster Solutions

There aren't any great answers and no one wants to let us hurt
anyone's feelings. The southern border with mexico is huge. It's hard
to justify the expense of a wall, but for that we need to think
outside the box.

#### Amnesty is Difficult to Structure Properly

Amnesty's a legal nightmare and possibly a policy quagmire. Depending
on how something like that is implemented, it will be a bureaucratic
mess creating another government agency that persists for decades and
steadily grows.

> Have you ever seen a federal bureaucracy on a hunger strike? Neither
> have I! They just feed themselves. End of year budget's like a shell
> game to justify increases, year after year.

Further to the point, some amnesty implementations completely
disregard legitimate immigration procedures and respect for the
law. What signal does that send to the people who dreamed big and
worked hard to get here?

#### Lack of Standard Identification

This is a national security mess. How does one prove identity? How do
we know you are who you say you are. All that talk about Real ID and
then we just hand ID's out to anyone that walks in. Basically, you
just pick yours up at Kroger.

No Photo ID? No documents? How are you going to handle those
situations? I'm sure that someone has thought about this way more than
I have.

##

      - proclamation of an amnesty program is tantamount to
        advertising free citizenship for anyone who can make it in in
        time
      - and there is no way to implement amnesty in enough time to
        avoid a massive influx of illegal immigration

## Massive Deportations

Does anyone really want to talk about this? No. I don't. But
seriously, what are we going to do? Again, inaction makes the problem
worse. And the people in this country don't get that. They're so
afraid to hurt someone's feelings by saying the wrong thing that
they'd rather knowingly let the whole damn thing become a powder keg
by 2025.

And think about it, most of the policies that people have supported up
to now

    - massive deportation may work, but is equally riddled with
      problems.
      - obviously, there is an opportunity for racism. it would
        definitely


## Future Consequences of a Poor Policy

With each year that passes, the consequences of inaction become
increasingly severe, including long-lasting cultural problems!

> **E.G.** You put up a forcefield and stop people from entering the
> country. You then grant everyone amnesty. Ok, problem solved, right?
> *WRONG!!* Now you have a dozen million people, potentially bitter,
> who lack the same level of education. They don't have resumes and
> they don't have very much money either.

So, have you actually thought out how these policies will play out?
OK, so then, aside from national security, what is the single, worst
aspect of illegal immigration? It is the cultural isolation. The de
facto consequences here might as well be segregation. And we
absolutely can not have a segment of our population, long deprived of
education and employment opportunities, who is isolated along mostly
ethnic boundaries!

## Longterm Ethnic Tension is Agony

I cannot emphasize this enough. That kind of crap ferments
longstanding ethnic tension. The kind of problems that cannot simply
be resolved. And yet, our inaction is going to further contribute to
this? Tearing down the real segregation was bad enough. Five decades
later and we're still dealing with long-term cultural problems from
that. And ... we want another source of problems like that? Hell no!

(Link to section on resolving these tensions)
[Diversity is America's Strength](/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength.html)

## Simultaneous Tensions Between Multiple Ethnicities is a Disaster

These past two years, the nation has been intensely focused on ethnic
tensions, originally stemming from the Ferguson protests. The
attention there was entirely warranted by the way, even though it's
getting way out of hand! I can't believe what happened in Dallas!

So there are major ethnic tensions in the African American community.
That's not what I'm writing about, but regardless of how you feel
about them, what happens when you add growing ethnic tension in the
Hispanic community stemming from illegal immigration? At the same
time?! That combination could fracture this country!

> We really have to stop and ask ourselves: what sacrifices are we
> going to make to ensure this country doesn't fall apart!

You need to read my article
[Diversity is America's Strength](/posts/2016-07-17-diversity-is-americas-strength.html#a-microcosm-for-diversity-in-the-world).
I was dead serious when I said that "*America is a microcosm of the
world, with respect to ethnic issues and diversity!"* What happens
here is indicitive to how things will play out in the rest of the
world by 2050. If we can't make it work here, in America, with 300
million people and plenty of wealth, how can we expect to make peace
amoung nations work across the globe?

# Why is it a problem?

(summarize, then lead into list of problems)

- (1) provide a definitive, balanced statement of illegal immigration
  - why is it a problem? why should you care?
    - establish that this problem is felt differently for different
      groups of people.
    - if you care about problems stemming from ethnic tensions,
      then you would want to resolve this earlier than later
      - because every year, the problem gets worse
      - and the larger the disparity there is between legal and
        illegal populations, the larger the ethnic tension there will
        be. so again, if you care about fallout from ethnic tension,
        then you'll want to do something about it sooner than later.
      - there are 11 million people in the country illegally now
        - if this number is 20 million instead, then that approaches
          0.5% to 1.0% of the population!

### National Security

  - far and beyond, the biggest problem is national security
      - you just can't, especially not in the 21st century. not in
        america. that's just a giant red flag. we're worried about al
        qaeda, but 11 million people just walked on in? man, that's 11
        million chances for some terrible organization to have already
        snuck someone in.



# Problems Related to Illegal Immigration

## (1) Jobs

The jobs that are being taken are really the least of our concerns. If
our concern is lost jobs, we should be more concerned about those sent
overseas.

## (2) Income Taxes

Illegal immigrants don't pay income taxes. They don't make very much
money, especially since state and federal laws are cracking down
against businesses who are caught hiring them.

Their labor isn't quantified by businesses in the same way as other
contractors or employees would be. This encourages sketchy book
keeping practices to hide payments. That's just bad business. Any
accounting system which needs to account for swapping money between
accounts and withdrawing cash for payment becomes necessarily more
complex, which makes it easier to cover other illegal behavior.

And I believe cooking the books is a separate crime itself. Now you
have two criminals: the illegal immigrant and the person who hired
them.

## (3) Employment Rights

Illegal immigrants don't have employment rights. This can lead to
tension. They can't expect contracts to be enforced and I imagine moot
contracts leads to unclear statements of work and/or service level
agreements. The lack of clearly stated requirements for work leads to
disputes where, basically, they have to do what someone says or they
don't get paid.

There's no authority in their employment environment that they can
rely on to provide fair arbitration in case of a dispute. They can't\
receive worker's comp or protection from OSHA. Any injury on the job
could result in major legal consequences for both the person and their
employer. After an accident requiring hospitalization, employee health
and safety should be the number one priority. Instead, both parties
here have an incentive to handle the situation to protect their own
interests. I imagine that leading to seriously fucked up situations
where someone is injured and loses future income, while simultaneously
dealing with an angry employer and potential legal consequences.

These and other situations lead to increased tension, risk and abuse
in illegal employment agreements, where they have no options for
recompense. Ask any union member whether they'd work without oversight
from OSHA or Worker's Comp. What would they say if you told them you
heard of a guy who got fired for breaking his arm, who never got paid
and received delayed medical care.

## (4) Policies Encourage Isolation

The domestic policies meant to stem the demand for cheap labor from
illegal immigrants end up creating more problems. It's not because the
policies are flawed. These are just common sense policies: business
can't hire employees that aren't paid minimum wage, aren't guaranteed
employment rights and are here illegally.

These policies tough on both employee and employer. This compels
businesses to turn over their books when under suspicion.

These actually stoke the flames because now you have a slice of the
population who is essentially backed into a corner and is being
starved out. These policies are necessary, but risk serious
consequences of backlash from legal and illegal immigrants of various
ethnicities.

## (5) Unintended Free Market Response to Policy Response

Illegal immigrants seeking a living wage and trying to feed their
families are committing crimes by working. Employers hiring illegal
immigrants are committing several crimes by employing them, including
cooking their books. There are no social programs in place for this
major chunk of our population. No safety net. There is no social
security in place, in the truest sense of the term.

That's one percent of our population with no options for stability and
nowhere to go, when things get tough. Further, people who knowingly
support illegal immigrants without reporting them could be committing
a crime if they did so. I'd feel horrible if I was compelled to rat
someone out like that and ended up splitting up a family.

What do people do, who hit hard times? They usually try to make ends
meet. Sometimes, this means they turn to crime or drugs to make money
... by the way, how many politicians out there would openly state
their views on anything? I mean *that's* politics. And so, yeh, I'm
saying that when things get tough, these policies could cause illegal
immigrants to resort to crime, like any other person whose family is
hungry. This is an example of a statement that can't be used as
component of an argument.

No, instead a politician would decide it's not worth mentioning
something offensive. Especially in a case like this, where not drawing
attention to it shields the public from thinking about it and, in the
end, provides reasons to arrest illegal immigrants who resort to crime
to feed themselves when they can't find work. Why would you risk the
offensive statement here?

Just think about that for a minute.

## (6) Disparity in Education and Government Services

- (6) their children can't receive education (depending on
      circumstance)
      - this leads to large amounts of idle, uneducated youth
        - it's bad. and when the issue is resolved, these children
          will suffer lasting consequences, as they won't easily
          conform to others of the same age in the education system
        - major source of long term consequences.
        - a certain minority who, if granted amnesty, *may* feel
          ashamed to admit to their past, for fear of judgement and
          for fear of being labeled as someone who is less capable in
          the workplace
          - because of a lack of education
          - or because a perceived lack of education

## (7) Strict Policies make things tough

- (7) if strict policies on stemming demand for illegal immigrant
      employment are working, then things are going to get real hard
      for illegal immigrants, including those who would otherwise be
      "model uncitizens"
      - this leads to about 3% of the population suffering serious
        hardship, with little options for money to resolve those
        problems.
      - that will lead people to partake in organized crime

## (8) Cultural Isolation (repeated?)

- (8) these people will become culturally isolated from the rest
      of america, having to live in the shadows, basically
      - major, major source of misunderstanding and conflict
      - i've never actually met someone that i know to be an illegal
        immigrant. never spoken to someone like that.

## (9) No Means of Identification (retitle bc they could have)

- (9) there is no assurance that these immigrants have valid
      identification from another country
      - where do we send them back?
        - if they have no identification. they will probably lie and
        say their from tijuana or cuidad juarez.
      - there is major potential for abuse of our own systems here
        - someone may manipulate the system into getting a free plane
          ticket to basically anywhere they want
        - that's probably not actually such a serious threat though.
      - this one has national security written all over it

## (10) Burden of Cost is on Taxpayers

- (10) the burden of cost to monitor and deport is placed on taxpayers
      - who can't be sure that there is a coherent strategy for
        actual resolution
      - this forms a bureaucracy, who's budget from year-to-year
        actually requires maintainence of the problem ... to some
        extent, anyways.
        - because of congressional and executive oversight, it also
        requires establishing reports demonstrating reasonable
        progress
      - but this is a major problem because the incentives behind each
        of the players suffer from major, major overhang and stifled
        discussion.
        - overhang as in the incentives are like a really wobbly jenga
          tower.

## (11) Implementation Risks Fracturing Families

- (11) implementation of policy risks fracturing families
      - when the discussion to construct a coherent policy never
        really occured.  or at least not to the extent that i would
        like to believe is necessary.
        - and i cover how a viable strategy requires secrecy, but what
          i'm saying if no one knows the goals we are pushing towards
          with resolving illegal immigration, how can they know how to
          react?

## (12) National Security Risk

- (12) and there's the major security risk when people connected
      to terrorism try to slip in.


## (13) Can't Announce Policy Changes

- (13) and if amnesty is announced, we can be sure that these
      people will try to slip in.

## (14) Stifled Policy Debate

- furthermore, we can't really have an open debate here.
  - partly because we can't talk about all the options on the table
    because of effect that could have on behavior
  - partly because of the PC Police scaring us into inaction by
    raising the spectre of racism


# What are the Answers?

summary
- some of these won't appeal to conservatives because ... the
  government has to finance it. my response to this is: look at the
  longterm consequences of prolonging inaction or trying to implement an
  ineffective policy.
  - those are going to be incredibly expensive
  - it's frustrating, i know. but if there's a better answer, i'd love
    to hear it.
- also describe the problems caused by a disorganized strategy
- goals for an ideal policy?
  - stops more people from crossing the border!
  - applies amnesty to ~20-50% of existing illegal immigrants over 4 years
    - just pulling those numbers from thin air
    - but whatever it is, it should be hard. it should act as an
      implicit filter, so that the people who have qualities that
      contribute to society stay
      - it should be risky. like "i dont know if i can do that, but if i
        work hard, then maybe"
      - it should be challenging, like military service would be
        challenging
    - it should be fair
      - obviously, something like national guard service wouldn't work
        for everyone (also ... are these people we want to train and
        give guns?)
    - it should be robust:
      - in terms of preventing unintended problems
      - or circumvention of measures
  - mitigates some of longterm problems that could result
      - e.g. problems where citizens receive amnesty, but are shut out
        of services afterwards ... something we don't want
    - it absolutely must account for the disparity in education &
      employability. mandatory.
  - should be something that is appealing for people
    - but also fair to those who have been here. or came here legally


## A Disorganized Strategy for Immigration Means:

    - increased tensions for illegal and legal immigrants here
    - any concerted strategy for solving the problem requires some
      element of secrecy to be effectively implemented to prevent any
      unintended response
      - this necessitates circumventing the democratic process in
        congress
        - if you can't openly discuss something or suggest tactics
          because of it, then it's hard to put it into action in a
          democratic system
      - lack of discussion means that if the strategy changes from
        year to year and term to term, no one is going to know
        - which basically means there can be no coordinated, coherent
          strategy.
        - if you can't coordinate how the strategy changes from term
          to term (because of the secrecy) then how can you ensure
          that certain long-term tactics are properly executed
          - and certain long-term objectives are met

### Economic Policy

not really sure this will be very effective.
  - the solution starts by addressing economic/political issues in
    neighboring states (mexico)
    - we need work with mexico to establish mutually beneficial
      policies which create opportunities there
      - Microsoft manufactured the original xbox in guadalajara, for
        example.
    - transporting products from mexico should be cheaper.  right now,
      the transportation channels available to push products out of
      mexico and into america are suboptimal, AFAIK. i don't actually
      have much knowledge on the specifics, but i'm making inferences
      from a few key pieces of info
      - from what i know, i'm tending towards thinking that mexico has
        an infrastructure problem that prevents product from being
        efficiently exported
        - but i haven't researched this at all
    - whatever policy we undertake here needs to factor in
      strengthening our relationship with mexico.
    - mexican authorities need to be involved in stemming the flow
      - we need to present them with a choice, essentially
        - positive reinforcement for demonstrated traction towards
          solving this problem.
          - our numbers get better stateside, we encourage policies
            which help the situation
          - examples include cooperation on shared infrastructure
            projects or encouragement of manufacturing opportunities
            - however, if it's hard enough to create jobs in america,
              what business do we have promising to create jobs
              elsewhere, that's dumb
        - ... i don't really want to say "negative reinforcement" here
          - but we need to find means of motivating action here

### Structure the Incentives

  - need to motivate the legal and illegal immigrant populations to
    action
    - consequences for illegal immigrants to cooperate can't all be
      negative.
    - seriously, what incentive would an illegal immigrant have for
      putting themselves at risk to cooperate with the system?
    - i don't really know what our options are here... but i'd love to
      explore them and hear what ideas people have

### Attention and Compromise from Both Parties

  - and finally, solving this problem requires attention and
    compromise from both parties
    - the longer we wait, the worse it gets and the more negativity
      it generates.
    - we need some form of amnesty, the implementation of such a
      policy has it's own problems (stated above)
      - mostly, it's difficult to determine what is fair and what is
        just,
        - when requirements and process for this must remain secret.
        - and the discussion of it
