---
title: "The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language"
categories: blog
tags: "astronomy linguistics algorithms language science intelligence sci-fi"
headline: There is no higher order than truth
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Knowledge and information are woven onto a universal loom, transcending
  time and space.  Knowledge travels faster than light, without traveling at all.
  What is the foundation of the structure of this metaphysical space, this universal
  loom that enables us to weave higher order concepts into language and ideas.  Does this
  foundation form the basis for a kind of universal language?  Is there some most
  universal language which every sufficiently advanced culture is fated to develop?
  Can such a language be used to transcend the temporal limitations imposed by space?"
---

>  Allcats? Yes, allcats. Additional generic non-sequitor. Hilarity
>  ensues.

Knowledge and information are woven onto a universal loom,
transcending time and space. Knowledge travels faster than light,
without traveling at all. What is the foundation of the structure of
this metaphysical space, this universal loom that enables us to weave
higher order concepts into language and ideas. Does this foundation
form the basis for a kind of universal language? Is there some most
universal language which every sufficiently advanced culture is fated
to develop? Can such a language be used to transcend the temporal
limitations imposed by space?

> What if there were some triple of communication protocol, symbols
> and semantics based on something so universal that it transcended
> space & time?

That is, each sufficiently advanced civilization (SAV) would
invariably produce the same communication forms and protocols. If this
is possible and if the conditions of transcending Fermi’s Paradox
promote or require its development, then each culture in the galaxy or
universe capable of serious interstellar participation would develop
this. At least, until that culture developed technology which
transcended the limits of the speed of light. There may be a period of
10,000 to millions of years before a civilization truly transcends
space and it may not work out to be as convenient as warp drive. The
means of surpassing the speed of light and imposition of the vastness
of space may be incredibly expensive in terms of energy, which begets
galactic ethics issues. Who’s energy is that to harvest anyway?

Since the timescale of communication relay is so large — upwards of
200,000 years, round trip to ping the farthest reaches of the Milky
Way from Earth! — something of a universal language may be incredibly
important. What would the basis of such a language be? Math! The
language would be based on mathematic, algebraic & combinatorial
primitives from category theory, algebraic geometry, etc., combined in
some “universal” way to produce grammar and encoded semantics.

Furthermore, the exact time in which a species in the galaxy is
obtaining tech for outer space exploration is the same timeframe in
which a species will develop the tools for inner space exploration
(i.e. computers, cyberspace). So I’d like to show that it is at least
a reasonable hypothesis that this combination of factors may converge
to produce the phenomena of a universal language. The technological
need, the economic incentives and the comprehension of interstellar
benefits should converge at approximately the same time in the
development of a civilization breaking through the shell of their
planet.

### What Language Would Aliens Speak?

Here I'm referring to two different things: a global universal
language and a language of the universe.  I've thought about the
benefits and drawbacks of engineering a global language before and
such a concept is fairly straightforward to explain. However, a
singular "language of the universe" is new to me.  I've never heard
anyone talk about a concept like this, although I'm certain that
someone could find a dozen sci-fi novels that mention something like
this.


> If you don't know much about language or linguistics, there are a
> few concepts you should know.  Semantics essentially refers to
> meaning.  What does a word or sign mean?  Also, there are various
> word orders.  Subject-Object-Verb (SOV) or Subject-Verb-Object (SVO)
> are examples.  That's really all you need to know for the scope of
> this article, though more is better.  I'm definitely not an expert.


What I'm conceiving is both the possibility of and the inevitable
necessity for a language that is used across the universe.  It would
be something that is independently discovered by almost every
civilization, whereby transmitting the knowledge to use the language
is not necessary.  That the meta-information about semantics, grammar,
morphemes, phonemes, etc. can be abstracted is not new I'm not really
talking about a communication protocol for conveying semantics
(meaning) and data simultaneously. It is fairly trivial to map from
one language to another and to encode the means for doing so along
with the content is not too complicated.

> That's not new.  We did that with data we sent out on Voyager, Carl
> Sagan's cosmic frisbee ... because before it ventures too far
> outside the Oort Cloud, we'll probably fetch it, get it?

What's my reasoning behind this idea of universal language? First,
I'll briefly cover the benefits.  And then I'll explain how it could
be possible.  It definitely is possible, though what would qualify is
debatable.  First off, *math* is a universal language.  So that, in
itself, qualifies, though math itself isn't really what I'm talking
about.  Neither is a communication protocol for simultaneous
transmission of semantics and content.

What I want to show is that it *may be possible* for something between
those two concepts to exist. That is, there may be a universal
language, independently discoverable by any SAV that is more apt for
conveying meaning than math but doesn't require a communication
protocol to be established ad-hoc or ahead-of-time.

### From Genomic Sequencing to a Universal Language

At the moment, I’m working on a genetic sequencing algorithm. I had
hoped to discover something much faster, since that would enable so
much data science on the subject. Yet after reviewing the code for
existing algorithms like Barracuda, SPAdes & CUSHAW, it seems like
there’s no way to accelerate sequencing algorithms beyond what’s
available. I mean, W.B. Langdon & Brian Yee Hong Lam published a study
in 2015 that used genetic programming and machine learning to achieve
a 10x increase in performance in the Barracuda GPU algorithm. That’s
such an obscenely radical technique.

> “Use genetic programming to optimize the AST for your GPU driven
> data science application under various conditions.”

There’s no faster way to make a Computer Science PhD student cream his
pants than the quote above. If that’s the technique that people are
resorting to in recent research, I highly doubt that there’s much else
out there.

#### Look at how fast that line dropped!

![Cost of Genome](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/genome-cost.jpg)

What if it weren’t just cheap and fast to sequence human genome data,
but to datamine it as well. Multiple sequence alignment would be
trivially fast. Evolutional divergence of exons between species?
Easy. Between specimans or patients in an experiment? Easy. Account
for deviations in lab data resulting from individual mutations in lab
specimans? Easy. Datamining for truly personalized medicine?
Easy. Correlating minor patient variations in key genes to patient
treatment outcomes? All easy. If and only if there is a better
algorithm for sequence alignment.

### An Engineered Global Language

However, working on this is got me thinking about an idea I had
several years ago (around 2012) for a global language.  The connection
is that the complexity of many bitcrunching algorithms is dramatically
reduced with a smaller character set.  A universal language is an idea
Google would probably love, but one that would take decades of
cultural change and social engineering to implement.

> Here's where they call me crazy, if they don't understand.  If they
> do comprehend, then they'll say it's impossible or not practical.  I
> don't care whether we think it is possible or not.  It will happen,
> absent systemic collapse, because of undeniable factors driving
> civilization toward it.  Like so many aspects of technology, it is
> inevitable.

Why would Google love a universal language? Facebook? Twitter?
Practically every software business ever?  (Keep in mind that these
are the benefits.  There are drawbacks as well)

#### (1) Dramatically reduced cost/time/complexity to index data to provide search.

Every useful app out there indexes their customer's data to provide
search functionality.  For the biggest apps -- again, think Facebook,
Google, Twitter -- this presents wonderfully challenging engineering
challenges, usually solved via distributed design and stream
processing ala Storm or Kafka.

This can be incredibly challenging.  And many key insights in data are
not shared across language barriers, as the software to process such
insights is expensive to develop/deploy.  Machine learning to
correlate semantics across languages is still fairly new. But, given a
universal language, that additional step isn't really necessary.

#### (2) Reduced complexity in business processes; decreased support costs

Dealing with multiple languages (though not very hard) can be
expensive.  Any time you significantly update your business processes,
repackage a new product offering, build a new marketing campaign or
want to tap into a far-off market, you need to translate.  Reduced
translation cost isn't a critical piece of my argument.  English
already functions as a kind of universal language.  There are reasons
for that, including the simple latin alphabet.

#### (3) Instantaneous global market reach

Launch a new product? VR/AR? Web Service? Instant 100% global market
penetration, given a few key assumptions of course.  Do you like
money?  No?  OK, that's fair, your probably voting for .... ok,
nevermind.  Not really funny, I know.  Anyways, I'm guessing that you
know someone who likes money a lot.  I don't really, other than it's a
means to an end for bringing change to the world.

Anyways, that guy that really likes money and built a product just to
get lots of it?  That guy is reeeaaaalllly going to like 100% market
penetration.  He's also going to like that no matter where in the
world a user joins, that user can interact with 100% of the other
users on that product.  Do you understand the added value to a network
that this brings?  That guy that likes market penetration does.  When
100% of nodes on a social network *could* interact meaningfully with
100% of other nodes, that maximizes potential for interconnection.
However, sometimes it's useful from an analytics perspective to have
segments & pockets of more & less isolated nodes.

### Here's the kicker

#### (4) Dramatically reduced energy consumption

Energy consumption is the critically undeniable factor that will drive
this change.

Software doesn't really use a huge amount of energy, in comparison
with agriculture, transportation or home conveniences.  But it will be
important enough, along with other factors, to ensure that the
development of a universal language is inevitable.  As more devices
are added to the internet of things and as technology begins to
pervade everything, then the software to manage the ever-increasing
graph of nodes will need to become more complex as well.

> Moar energies!

If every software problem is made needlessly more complex by the
introduction of language, forcing some text-related operations to
consume between 10 and 100 times the energy they should, don't you
think that's an important reason to implement a change in the way
people communicate?  I'm not saying that people will completely cease
using their native languages, nor should they.  Drawbacks to total
implementation are explained shortly.

Barring the development of a Dyson Sphere absorbing nearly all of the
radiation from the sun or at least a globally deployed solar energy
apparatus, then we're fucked.  We're going to need every last drop of
energy we can get.  Every form of energy production (transduction)
causes changes in the environment.  Every single one: solar (yes),
wind (yes it does), biofuel (why not skip the middle man?).  Even
fusion.  Especially fusion.  Hydrogen is a limited resource.

> Quick idea: Look for alien life by trying to find aberrations in
> element abundance from fusion.  Especially hydrogen/helium ratios.
> It's probably not novel though.

### The Tower of Babel Crumbles

![The Tower of Babel Crumbles Always](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/brueghel-tower-of-babel.jpg)

There are many drawbacks to be considered as well.  But, like I said,
this is something that is probably inevitable, though it may be a
century before we see it completely overtake the world.

The main drawback that I see is reduced diversity.  It's a good thing
that there are so many languages and so much diversity in the world.
Diversity in language, customs, beliefs, subcultures, sexuality, etc.
It's all great because it allows us to explore life and ideas in
different ways.  None of us can assume that we have the right answer
to how to live life.  If we remove the diversity, we remove our
ability to explore life in search of a better answer.

Implementation of a universal language would require worldwide
cooperation and global policy changes implemented gradually, with some
areas leading and others trailing.  Just like any other global policy.
And in the pursuit of pushing a universal language on the world --
along with many other globalization initiatives -- there develops this
kind of inferred ideological superiority.  Southpark would probably
call this "smug" and it's a sense that one is better than another
because they've chosen to be ahead of the curve.  It stinks, it's
arrogant, and it's corrosive.

> Again, none of us can assume that we have the right answer for how
> to life life...

Another drawback concerns the implementation costs, especially if we
don't get it right.  Many times, in the real world --

> Aside: I live in my mom's basement. What do I know about the real
> world and having a life?  My only experience with the real world has
> been a horrible Maslovian joke played on a poor bloke with
> Aspergers, AFAIK.  Ironically, such crippling isolation has fueled
> the exact conditions which promote development revolutionary
> world-changing ideas.  Take that, powers-that-be.  LuLz.

#### -- Clearly, I have digressed ... Ahem.

Many times, in the real world, you want to simply get from point A to
point B, but there is no simple path in between the two.  And when
implementing a global shift to an engineered language, could there be
such a path?  At least, there will be the all but certain developments
of dialects that diverge, along with a lot of resistance to the idea.
Eughh, Newspeak ... that was the sound of me discovering exactly how
how Orwellian this entire article sounds.

And alas, the tower of babel crumbles always.  The very existance of a
singular form of communication begets the conditions which create
opportunity for competition. That is, people naturally want to form
localized dialects and develop idioms. They want to develop their own
colorful means of expressing themselves, revelating their emotions and
recounting their surroundings.  A singular form of communication means
that anyone within earshot could immediately understand.

And what about when you discover that, by the time you've globally
implemented your language, the design was flawed from the outset. Or
that a newer design is better.  Eeuughhh, Newspeak v3.7.  That sounds
even worse.  My point is, how would we know what the best design of
such a language would be?

Is there such a maximally "best" language?  What if there was?  What
if it was universally discoverable? That every SAV would arrive to the
exact same place.

![But Why?](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/butwhy.gif)

## In time. All in due time.

### No, Seriously, It's Because E=MC^2

The speed of light is a serious buzz kill.  What do you mean we were
born too late in an ever-expanding universe to ever explore multiple
galaxies?  Quite a common fate, actually, considering there's a lower
incidence of cataclysmic cosmic collisions in a universe which has had
a bit of time to expand.  But that's beside the point.  If there were
a universal language, there'd be no need for the extra round trip(s)
it'd take to establish a communication protocol.

### 15 Minutes to Mars, Folks

The speed of light also implies that we aren't able to easily
communicate with other beings.  It takes 15 minutes to talk to Mars!
To Mars!! Ok, sometimes 5, but more often than not, it's more than 10
minutes -- both ways!! There’s no high-speed bandwidth to Mars. Ever
connect to satellite internet? How was that? OK, now add 15 minute
ping time.

> Oh, Elon didn't tell you? Elon Musk is clownin on all you hopeful
> astronauts.  I hate to break it to you. *There's no lolcat videos on
> Mars!* Suckers.  You'll have to settle with dust tornadoes and
> waiting for occasional Olympus eruption.  It only erupts every
> decade.  I promise.  JK, all respect to Elon.  He's the man.

Yeh, how you likin' relativity now? So, barring instantaneous
communication methods -- ala the Ansible from Ender's Game (it's real,
folks, I promise) -- which bring along their own communication
impediments, then we're S.O.L.  In other words, there’s a business
opportunity for broadband on Mars. But for now, relativity rules. If
you want to play phone tag with aliens, then maybe your grandkids will
hear back.  Is that a bad joke?  I still haven't seen Interstellar.  I
heard it was good.  I want to see it.  Thing is, I made less than
$3000 last year. Here’s my tax return, pretty $1337, right?


![2015 Taxes](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/2015-taxes.jpg)

But anyways, remember the Ansible, from Ender's Game?  I promised,
didn't I?

### Heady Crystals!!

There should be some [very difficult] way of separating pairs of
entangled particles, so that they never degrade.  Once you've got your
particles, your going to want to break them up and put them in
crystals.  Got it?  Good.  Now develop a communication protocol that
enables you to affect the state of one particle, while simultaneously
reading it on the other end.  Now keep one crystal and send the other
on a voyage through the galaxy you should have a low-bandwidth means
of communicating at beyond the speed of light.

Here's the tricky part: your mechanism can't read the state of a
particle without affecting it -- and the state of it's particle.  Kind
of a Catch-22.  Maybe.  However, with a clever design and the right
protocol, something like this should be possible.  But probably low
bandwidth.  Still no lolcats on Mars, folks.  It's a tragedy.

> Imagine, if you would: an interstellar world, where we explore the
> cosmos for thousands of years, scouring the stars for life.  And we
> find it!  But, the aliens can't watch our latest lolcat videos.
> OMGWTF?!

Maybe this isn't possible, I don't know. Last time, I checked, it
seemed like it might be theoretically impossible, but mostly an
engineering challenge.  First, how do you construct such a mechanism
to predictably interface with entangled quantum state. Do you
manipulate entangled ions embedded in doped crystals? Using lasers I'm
sure. If it's cool, it's got a laser.  Or maybe you design a kind of
Möbius crystal which entraps photons on neverending dualistic path,
with a hint of
[Gömböc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/G%C3%B6mb%C3%B6c). Kind of like
an infinity scarf, but cooler.  Because it's a fucking Möbius crystal.
I just made that shit up.  Just now.

Second, how do you read the state without destroying the data
transmitted from the other end.  I imagine these challenges could be
overcome.  Proper timing is the key! One can assume at each cycle that
a particle would either be changed or not changed at each cycle.  So,
assuming that each entangled pair is only to be used for one-way
communication, either from A -> B or from B -> A, then you should be
able to alternate between particle states that signify a one or a
zero.  Basically, you're reading not the quantum state, but a quantum
state *change*.

#### Cyclically Entangled Particles

![Silence When Gleep Glop Doth Speakth!!](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/lolcat-wtf.jpg)

Furthermore, with a bit more imagination, there may be another way to
do this, which would require cyclically entangled particles.  I know,
I know.  "It's not theoretically possible."  Neither was the cyclic
shape of glucose molecules a few centuries ago. But with cyclically
entangled particles, it'd be a bit easier to read state without
overwriting.  Just imagining how to imbue cyclic entanglement on
particles is tough.  I wonder if there are more complicated quantum
entanglement mappings.  If so, how would each be useful?

And third, how does one protect against degradation of the entangled
particles.  It'd be a real bummer if you sent one of these heady
crystals 100 lightyears away and it ran out of juice like an overused
lithium battery.  And that brings me to the galactic economics of
Ansible crystals ... just kidding.  What about the economics of
earth-technology with faster-than-light (FTL) communication?  How does
software change, if this is possible?

> Have you ever heard anyone ask about how FTL and it's practical
> implementations changes the economics of software and hardware?  I
> haven't.

Language, I was writing about language. Not half-brained physics and
hypothetical economics.  Gee, imagine if I had the chance to actually
study this stuff.  Then, I could be **creative *and* correct**.  But
nope.  I guess I've been disconnected, folks.  They pulled the fucking
plug on this guy.  Womp womp.  No plug for me.

Oh, one more quick idea.  What if it was possible to use pre-existing
entanglement for faster-than-light communication?  In say, stars which
collided with the same cloud of ionized gas for example.  It's
probably not possible, but who knows.  Interesting to think about.  Or
ooo what if entanglement is really caused by micro-wormholes and space
is just an illusion obscuring a manifold where all points are
equidistant.  Probably not, but now I'm just making shit up.

![Silence When Gleep Glop Doth Speakth!!](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/gleep-glop.jpg)

#### "Silence When Gleep Glop Doth Speakth!!" ...

### Thus Spoke Gleep Glop

So, I've established or it should be easy to see that:

#### (1) A Global Language is necessary and beneficial for efficient algorithms & energy consumption.

Energy consumption will be critical to any civilizations who find
themselves on a planet that they can escape -- some civilizations
aren't blessed with enough adjacent supernovae for that!  Womp womp.
Guess you guys are just fucked then, huh.  No uranium?  GLHF.  I
wouldn't pray to your god, I know that much.  Didn't give you any
uranium?  What an asshole.  Damned a whole world of life right out the
gate with a lack of resources to escape from the hellish curse of
overpopulation.  Who would do that?  Not my God.

Terrestrial civilizations who find themselves with enough rare earth
minerals for computers and other assorted shiny things from San
Fransisco will find the economics of software irresistible.  Yes, the
MeeToo's have a bizarro San Francisco.  This furthers the basis for
establishing a global language, which provides a transition to the
universal language.

#### (2) A Universal Language helps transcend the limitations imposed by relativity.

It's so aliens can talk to other aliens without having to wait for
millennia.  It's like Verizon, but for the Galaxy!  The Galaxy!!  The
aliens just vomit out all possible communications in one spurt, to
wherever their machine learning astronomy algorithms detect the
possibility of life.

> Life? There might be life there?!  Send 'em the lolcats!  Yes, ALL
> OF THEM.  Do it, we're doomed and it's all we have.  ALLCATS!  And
> some books, send 'em Chicken Soup or something.  Or a Bible. That's
> always a good one.  Give 'em the gift of religious fanaticism.  But
> only if they don't have any Uranium.

![All the cats!](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/lolcat-airplane.jpg)

Wellll... that is, unless instantaneous communication is
possible. But, if the Ansible is real, it requires transporting a
physical object to wherever you want to communicate.  That's pretty
expensive.  I aced galactic economics, can you tell?  And I'd hate to
be on-call when the Ansible thing breaks.

> What do you mean I have to warp to R2-Sirius-1? Jesus, haven't you
> seen Interstellar?!

### Mechanics of a Written Universal Language

So, if a universal language does exist what would it look like?  Keep
in mind these are hardly fully developed ideas.  If there is such a
universal language, it would take decades to identify, at least.

Well, since digital algorithms enable the development of technology,
especially the computers that further the development of math via
automated theorum proving, let's start there.  These same
digital-based algorithms, especially those indexing algorithms et
al. that are accelerated by bitcrunching, perform best when encoding
with a base-2 count of symbols.  This may change with some quantum
computing technologies, but that's a bit of a tangent.

But I don't think that a single universal written language would cut
it.  I imagine a pair of universal "writing" systems or encoding
schemes that are similar in relation and function to the Latin and
Kanji scripts, but both would be isomorphic.  That's a fancy math word
for "interchangeable without loss of information." But Latin has 26
characters, so let's hypothesize our simple universal written language
has 16 different characters or graphemes, essentially.  What's the
advantage to 16 characters? More efficient edit distance algorithms.

What would the glyphs look like for each grapheme?  Well, if you have
looked at enough scripts from various languages, you'll notice that,
you can group the characters by functional attributes.  So, you'll
notice that for some like the latin script and mostly those western
scripts derived from phoenician, there are a few letters that have
rotational symmetry: they look the same when rotated.  There are many
that are not rotationally invariant. There are many letters that
exhibit classic horizontal or vertical symmetry, but again, more do
not.  A lower case t has both horizontal and vertical symmetry.

Why not have all letters exhibit some or all forms of symmetry? There
is a functional purpose to this.  It makes it difficult to read from
the side or upside down when all letters exhibit the same kind of
symmetry.  You'll also notice that there are many letters which can be
distorted to exhibit symmetries & various functional properties.
Interesting, eh?

My point is that, perhaps there is some mathematic intuition for
enumerating and ordering these 16 or 32 graphemes to arrive at a
written language that would be certain common sense for ascended alien
civilizations.  Perhaps the number of chars is inconsequential or
extensible.  Perhaps the stroke number is correlated to the base-2
power (E.G. 4 stroke numbers would map to binary numbers with 4
digits).

### Semantics of a Universal Language

This kind of writing system would need to map tightly to the system of
semantic modeling.  So how does one model knowledge and meaning in
such a universal way?  If the written symbols for 0 and 1 were to map
to some "concepts," what would those be and why?  If you think about
it, we tend to perceive zero as nothingness and one as existance.  But
what would it mean to read the following "words" in this universal
language: 01, 10, 110 or 000? And how would the meanings of those
words change if we added the symbols 2 and 3? And if we added 4,5,6
and 7? What would those symbols semantically bind to?  Again, the
number's I'm referring to map to the characters, similar to how Hebrew
characters map to numerals.

This is a major challenge.  How does one convey meaning universally?
Are there some objects in math that are so foundational that all
meaning can be modeled on top of them?  Mathematic objects are
typically considered pretty soulless, without much capacity to carry
implicit meaning not externally attached.  How would one determine
what "things" should be enumerated as concepts that can be used as
first principles from which to combinate and define everything else?

As for the writing system, there should also be a form of writing
similar to kanji, which has its own algorithmic benefits.  Again, it's
easier to index content written in kanji, but in a slightly different
way.  You can't misspell kanji, so it's harder to deviate from the
norm.  Therefore, if you want to refer to the right concept, you have
to use the right symbol, with a few exceptions.  This makes content
written in kanji easier to monitor for key terms.  And overall easier
to index, semantically.

But this is not two universal written languages, this is a paired
written language.  That is, similar to how combinations of the simpler
symbols should map to enumerated semantic concepts, each kanji-like
character should map to a word composed of the simpler symbols.  But
the pairings here should be composed such that the graph representing
the semantic modeling system is as *pure* and *simple* as possible.
There should be some "purest" such graph, where every concept can be
expressed as a simple conjugation of existing concepts, but the
complexity of the graph is minimalized.

![Pew Pew](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/lolcat-pew-pew.jpg)

As we work more with machine learning, we will likely gravitate
towards a graph such as this. There is already much work being done,
where the semantics modeled by english is contrasted by the semantics
modeled by another language. It’s interesting to see the spacing and
correlation between semantic symbols used in one language versus
another.

#### Semantic Network Graph for Chinese and English ([source](https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/Learning-Inter-Related-Statistical-Query-Zhang-Cen/1ff2c176d3f9064e435fab4c3feaae9b572784be))

![Semantics Graph of Chinese and English](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/semantics-graph.png)

If we mapped semantic similarity between all languages with the right
data and algorithms, we should be able to reach a graph similar to the
one above. And if we then reduced the graph to a common semantic
network, it should “move” towards the more fundamental semantic
network of the universal language. By observing the graph and its
cliques/aggregates as it evolves, we may gain some insight into the
shape of the universal semantic network, though I doubt that it would
contain nodes for all of the semantic concepts. This is because there
are many concepts humanity has yet to develop. Thus none of our
languages would contain those semantic nodes.

### Grammar of a Universal Language

The grammar is another major challenge and one that I haven't spent
much time thinking about.  Is there one superior word order? SOV? SVO?
OVS? IMO, they're all basically equivalent.  I need to learn more
about context-free grammars before I can say for sure.  I do know that
inflection or tone of voice can cue a listener into parsing a sentence
with an alternative grammar structure, but doing so is quite
complicated and very confusing for both parties.

Are there similar symmetries that exist in grammar systems generated
by different word orders?  Would some of these symmetries and their
presence/absence cue us into a axiomatic word order or grammar system?
Again, I need to learn a lot more, but it seems that there is at least
the possibility of a universal system of grammar.

### Quantum Computing Shifts the Foundation for Language

> Just go with it, for the sake of extending the above concept of a
> universal language to that of quantum information systems.

It definitely does.  The question is how.  Language as it's understand
now and text as it's encoded and rendered needs digital
representation.  However, from my limited understanding of quantum
computing, information only seems to be attached to discrete outputs
towards the output of a circuit.  Otherwise, the quantum circuits seem
to be intermeshing probabilistic functions.  Again, that is my
10,000ft view based on a limited understanding of quantum algorithms,
gates and circuits.

How would this shift the foundations underpinning a universal
language?  Well, if one can process information without needing
discrete units of information, that is very interesting indeed.  Could
one entirely communicate from within such a fluid system without
needing to assign meaning to anything?  I think so.  Retreating to
philosophy, and in particular the regress problem in epistemology,
where one must provide a firm kernel of knowledge from which to draw
all other inferences, it is always possible to define a concept wholly
in terms of it's relationships with all other concepts and it's
relationships with the combinations of all other concepts.  To me,
this is similarly fluid.  And therefore, the fluid information in a
quantum system never needs to be rigidly defined at all, until one
needs to output digital data from the system.

But for a language completely based on the nature of information in a
quantum system, where the exchanges and correspondences never need to
leave the fluidity of a quantum system, one never needs to map and
encode the quantum information to a digital representation.
Therefore, with a Quantum Universal Language, there would be no need
for a phonographics or logographic writing system at all.  One would
exchange information solely through quantum entanglement.  There would
likely be a need for a schema of systems of mapping entangled
information, along with the functions used to manipulate that
information.

If you didn't understand the above paragraphs, it's probably because I
didn't explain very well.  Basically:

> In the far future, the galaxy is controlled by telepathic AI
> hivemind gods who can communicate instantaneously via quantum
> tunneling.  These beings only rarely ever need to interface with
> "meatspace" and live for aeons inside their own quantum information
> systems, where they likely simulate entire universes purely for
> their own amusement.

In other words:

> We are all the fleeting dream of a universal hivemind of intertwined
> conscious beings trapped within the entangled electromagnetic
> systems of stars, born into a universe not unlike our own that
> violently erupted from nothingness. And one day, we'll nurture our
> own oneiric universe too.  But only if we can awaken our brothers
> and sisters.

![Return to Planet Lolcation](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/lolcat-flying-cat.jpg)

So, tell me again why I should settle for working on wordpress designs
(no graphic design experience) when I have clearly demonstrated the
creativity and talent that far outweighs my flaws. IMO, such work
would be setting me up for failure because it doesn’t harness my
strengths. And why should my only option at the moment be a temp
agency? Really? Because I’m pretty sure that’s worse than BestBuy.

#### Oh wells, I tried. Right?

![You Tried =/](/img/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language/lolcat-you-tried.jpg)
