---
title: "Consciousness as a Continuum: Life, the Cosmos and You"
categories: blog
tags: "sci-fi language linguistics literature metamodernism philosophy"
headline: "Everconnectedness, the Quantum Web and Entropy's Antithesis"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
As senses evolve, they provide us with a bigger window to that
world. As our brains evolved, they provide us with a better processing
that expands that same window with aggregate information at various
levels, expanding to the kind of consciousness that human beings
experience. The kind that forces us to question why? Why am i here?
What is my purpose? What is my directive?"
---

Philosophers have debated on the nature of consciousness for
ages. What is it that allows us to think? As Descartes said:

> I think, therefore I am.

Is this true? If so, what makes us conscious and not animals? Is there
some fundamental difference between us?  I believe that consciousness
is a continuum that extends to some degree across all walks of
life. Consciousness is our window to the world. It's how we experience
the information that we experience.

#### Language & Semiotics

My thesis requires discussing language and semiotics, particularly how
the former equips our mind with the tools it needs for abstraction.
I'll show that higher complexity semiotics results in higher
consciousness and a greater capacity for abstraction. Also, I'll need
to talk about entropy. Informational entropy lays the groundwork for
how we exchange information and how our minds process information.

#### Informational Entropy

Informational entropy determines the complexity of the information
that we can process and also the bandwidth of transmission of that
information. This informational entropy is a measure of the complexity
of semiotics. Languages or forms of communication that contain a small
number of phonemes or symbols don't have very high bandwidth. With
extremely low informational entropy, the we can't have complex
grammers because there's not enough "space." E.G. A language with one
vowel and two consonants.

#### Cosmic Entropy and the Destiny of Humanity

Cosmic entropy sets the stage for discussing how matter is
interconnected. We can trace matter back to the origin and we'll find
that matter forms an intertangled graph I call the Quantum Web. This
is important for laying the foundation for some more unexpected
qualities of reality: particularly the quantum mechanical aspects of
consciousness.

#### Notes on Speculation

There's a lot of speculation in this article. Again, please do your
own research. If you find something that's glaringly wrong, please
comment about it. Particularly, I'm unsure of the section on the
Quantum Web. It sounds amazing and may set the stage for philosophy
beyond the Singularity.

#### In Conclusion, We May Merge with an Ancient Cosmic Internet

In the conclusions from this information, hopefully we should be able
to question our place in the universe. We may be part of something
ancient. There may be life all around us in the universe. The
tumultuous times we are going through, they may not be so unique. Life
can take many forms, but my hypothesis is that consciousness is the
window we use to experience the world.

#### The Cosmic Economy

And if the Quantum Web is real, then it may be possible for our
superintelligent AI born in the Singularity to merge with all or some
alien superintelligences across the universe. This would have some
interesting economic consequences in the universal knowledge economy.
I'll talk about alien economics and cosmic ethics in a future article.

## What is Life?

Life is the inevitability that entropy will push matter to self
organize into higher forms, eventually to those that have the capacity
to instantiate higher-levels of information. Life forms need to
process information. Even microbes are technically processing and
reacting to information, though they are doing so mechanically. In
fact, we are made of information. Therefore, to survive life forms
internalize information about their world in the form of
self-organized matter composed of various representations of that
information, including the life forms experience.

This sets the basis for the continuum of consciousness, which is
formed from the undeniable fact that we have a window to the
world. Life processes streams of information. The very fact that we
have this experience of information means that we have consciousness,
at least some level of it. Even if it's not a very big window or not a
very "significant" one, it is our window to the world. Even a spider
must, on some implicit level, deal with the fact that it is
experiencing the reality of that window to the world. I discuss this
further in
[Neural Networks and Spider Brains](/posts/2015-11-21-neural-networks-and-spider-brains.html).

As senses evolve, they provide us with a bigger window to that
world. As our brains evolve, they provide us with a better processing
that expands that same window with aggregate information at various
levels, expanding to the kind of consciousness that human beings
experience. The kind that forces us to question => **Why?**

#### Why am I here?

#### What is my purpose?

#### What is my directive?

That is, eventually. We can eventually state those questions. We have
to evolve so many mental faculties before we get to that point. But
the brain itself is really the ultimate abstraction of the
universe. It's the universe taking the sum of it's experiences and
internalizing it into little nodes: wetware computers driving the
minds and actions of animals.

In fact, life and especially self-aware life is the universe's means
of becoming aware of itself. It's summerizing that experience of
itself *inside itself*.

## Consciousness is a Continuum

This window of consciousness can be shallow in that it is just the
experience of the information with very little processed aggregate
information available on top of it. Or this window can have much more
depth to it, in which case it would include lots of aggregate
data. Eventually, this window becomes complex enough that it gives
rise to complex thought.

This is particularly so, after vocal cords are developed that can be
controlled to differentiate a large number of phonemes in a
reproducible manner because this allows us to combinate abstract
actions and attach them to meaning with semiotics. Even better, now
those little nodes of experience can communicate with others to
efficiently distribute their experience. When this is combined with
the mental prowess for basic abstract thought and (social features),
then something special happens in the minds of animals.

Once the knowledge for making these phonemes (types of sounds) is
fairly common, so that it's almost inevitable for the children of that
species to make those sounds, then it can be expected that nearly
every member of a species will experiement with combinations of those
sounds. Once that happens, then it can be expected that there will
always be a transfer of information between members of the same
species, simply because:

#### They have the physical ability to make the same kinds of sounds.

#### Most members of the species will make those sounds.

#### The species has some level of sociality.

#### And, therefore, the species will share common experiences.

So there will be a transfer of information between members of the same
species, given that they can make similar sounds. These sounds are
attached to meanings in the world, which requires ideas from
[semiotics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiotics). Early on, it's
difficult to ascribe any particular meaning to "words" in these kinds
of languages. There's no structure and nothing is maintained. So,
early on, these phonemes take on meanings that are implicit to the
animals experience and because they all have similar experiences,
those meanings can be implicitly conveyed to other members of the
species without having to communicate any specific meaning. Similar to
slang, the particular words and meanings will rise and wane in
usage. These phonemes can be combined to form morphemes and,
eventually, grammars should emerge.

It's hard to say this is language because there isn't any way to
specify meanings for anything. But it is communication. And it sets
the stage for abstraction and variation and combination of other
faculties of the brain, which lays the groundwork for higher level
thought.  And we all gradually evolve towards embodying minds which
are capable of discovering what are universal ideas.

## Language Expands Consciousness

Language expands our consciousness. It's what enables abstract thought
for many reasons. If a species does not have the capacity to produce a
large number of phonemes, then it will probably not develop higher
consciousness. In order to develop that, a species needs that kind of
challenge in it's environment; something that provides value if the
animals can master it; something that forces their minds to abstract
and to variated combinations of symbols and functions.

There is very little else in an early intelligent life form that would
be both useful enough and allow them to play around with
variations. They need some kind of social structure because those
social activities require them to abstract their actions, behaviors
and routines. Social structure also forces them to develop a stronger
concept of both self and group.

## Informational Entropy

But what are we really doing with language? We're replicating memes of
information. A meme is a unit of information. It's not a square
picture with large text on Twitter. A meme can be combined with type
theory to act as a template for information. That's what you see on
twitter. People are taking this meme that people have decided means
something simple and can be clearly communicated. And they are
attaching other pieces of information to it ... kind of using type
theory, whether they know it or not.

But even animals need to replicate information. They have defined
specific signs and symbols to mean something amoung members of their
branch of the social hierarchy. They just don't have the language
faculties to definitively assign a clear meaning to something, so they
don't even need the notion of a "word." Most of the time, they don't
even have morphemes. Or they might just be communicating with body
language.

Each member of a community has a set of information in it's mind. And
through communication those members can spread that information to
others. And by expanding the base set symbols (phonemes, gestures)
that are recognized by each member of the community, they are
expanding the ability of those animals to communicate.

But in a cosmic context, if we consider life to be increasingly higher
levels of self-organization of matter, then informational entropy
applies there too. Entropy in information theory is derived from the
amount of possible variations in an encoded message. Instead of an
encoded message, we consider the variation in types of particles and
the types of particle interactions, then informational entropy should
correlate to the presence of life.

This is an interesting path of thought, if you consider the
intersection of two particles as a kind of informational exchange.

And what is happening there anyways? Out there in the vastness of
space? What conditions contribute to an increase in informational
entropy? Obviously, stable conditions. Or is that obvious? I could
imagine life forms in the sun, if there's a propensity for the chaotic
magnetic fields to feed into some kind of self-sustaining,
self-replicating electromagnetic force. If such information
persistence could occur in matter on earth and if it's not so far
fetched for something like that to occur in the frosty depths of
Europa, then why not in the Sun?

If life is just the persistence of information in the universe, then
it should be everywhere. But if this definition is true, then what are
we? Are we really that special? I think so. I think it's special for
organic lifeforms to receive such prolonged stability as to develop
philosophy and freedom from the lower rungs of Fermi's Paradox.

### Cosmic Entropy

In the grand scheme of things, cosmic entropy is its own
anti-thesis. Or ... we should hope that it is. Entropy is EVIL!! lulz

Our ability to counter entropy and our capacity to dominate it
determines our cosmic fate. We have to do so ethically of course, but
observing the universe's state, it appears there's not much out there
doing so on a grand scale. Such
[Type II/III](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kardashev_scale)
Civilizations would show up as abberations violating natural entropy
in cosmology. Intelligent life *could* account for *some* of Dark
Matter's variation, but I just don't know enough about astrology &
cosmology. That's right, intelligent life should show up as
statistical error in our models of the universe.

These statistical abberrations would grow as the universe expands from
the point where intelligent life interfered with the distribution of
matter. So, if this is true and life interfered in a measureable way,
then there should also be a kind of distribution across the universe
for this error when contrasted with the regions that aren't as
drastically altered. This is because only a few Type II/III
civilizations would emerge in the first few billion years. Those would
have the largest effect on the shape of the universe.

And therefore, ancient events would starkly contrast cosmological
models of galaxies and galaxy clusters. This only applies to
civilizations that can do stuff like create black holes and move stars
and trigger supernovae. Those are the types of events we should look
for. Particularly triggered supernovae, I think.

Furthermore, intelligent life could explain the presence of
assymmetries in clusters/galaxies! Especially if these variations
occurred < 1BY after the big bang. Maybe everything was symmetric. If
so, intelligent life could cause seemingly minor changes, creating
assymmetry over time.

Our ability to increase the computational capacity of the universe
determines our ability to augment our window of consciousness into the
universe. More computational power translates into the power to solve
bigger problems. More importantly, it translates into the ability to
virtualize larger and larger worlds, if for some reason other worlds
are not accessible in another means. This extends from what I've
written in
[I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual (Part One)](/posts/2016-06-01-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-1-God-is-not-dead.html)
and
[Nature of God](http://localhost:4000/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html).

Entropy determines the fate of the universe. If there's a Big
Crunch, we can deal with that a lot easier than a Big Freeze. There
must certainly be one or the other, I think. With increasing vastness
of space, it will require more energy to reorganize it for
computation. That's depressing. Depending on the inherent
computational potential of matter, we can create powerful computers
with the matter/energy available to us. But if we're surrounded by a
cosmic desert, we can't build massive computers. And that limits our
ability to expand into virtual universes that descend from ours.

The complexity of a universe that can be reasonably simulated by
intelligent life depends on this computational density and our ability
to assemble pieces of such a massive computer. There are some
mathematic inequalities here and I'll discuss those sometime soon. In
my Dr. Strange article.

# The Connectedness of All Things

Spooky action at a distance. That's how Einstein referred to quantum
entanglement of particles. It transcends the speed of light because
the exchange of information here doesn't require the traversal of
space. Space is what imposes the speed of light.

Entanglement shares some interesting properties with my favorite
subject: category theory. And in particular, there are lots of
interesting overlaps with functional programming.

Basically, two particles emerge from some interaction entangled. And
now their state is tied together with the chance of lazy reevaluation
of state in the future. That is the future state of both particles is
tied to the result of the interaction in the past *and* to future
interactions. So, any future interaction to either particle has to
account for state changes to the other particle in the entangled pair.

In fact, this in and of itself, *could* what drives the Heisenberg
Uncertainty Principle ... but it's probably not. But if you think
about it: if all electrons have a web of entanglements that extend
pretty far back, then to determine qualities of one particle, then
wouldn't you need to know all of the states of particles it had
interacted with? ... I need to be able to ask some questions...

I imagine that entanglement itself could be responsible for a degree
of uncertainty. The states of dependent particles could change based
on the particles they depend on.

## Interconnected and Everconnected

Lets think all the way back to the Big Bang. I believe it happened,
though religions might talk about things symbolicly. If you look at
Genesis, everything happens in the right order. Interesting, n'est-ce
pas? The order is preserved ... K, moving on.

If you start now and move all the way back to the Big Bang, everything
becomes more likely to be connected. Particle interactions are more
likely and, therefore, entanglements are more likely. I wish I knew
more about the exact quantum physics driving this, but it's clear that
if you go allll the way back to that original singularity, you'll find
that *everything* is connected. Therefore, everything is
interconnected and everything is everconnected. Forever....

#### The Universe, Basically... lulz

![The Universe, as the Overly Attached Girlfriend You Probably Never Dated](/img/posts/2016-07-11-consciousness-as-a-continuum/gf-forever.jpg)

I'm not the first person who's thought of this. Obviously .... Or
maybe I did. Who knows (I didn't)

> "Simpsons Did It!" -- Pretty much everyone in the world when I try
> to say I've done something original. But *damn* how many times have
> you come up with something that *feels* revolutionary in some
> academic subject.
>
> Typical. It's typical of people to judge. Have you ever even felt
> that once? AND what if you were isolated and ostracized?  For real,
> people who respond to me in this way or want to make me feel bad for
> it need to get a new schtick. Seriously. Grow up.

So anyways it would seem that, if you trace things all the way back,
then throw in that lazy-evaluation perspective on quantum
entanglement, then you'd see that everything is interacting with the
*product* of everything it's every it's ever interacted with
before. So basically, the state of any particle is like a factorial
that accumulates more behavior with every subsequent spatial
interaction... I think.

I donno. I need to know more. But I suck up the math like a
sponge. Seriously. I just need to be around more people that think
about this stuff.

## The Quantum Web

So, if these ideas hold to some degree, then there should be a
*Quantum Web* that forms between all particles that have ever
interacted. It's born out of the concept of everconnectedness I
introduced above. And because there were so many more interactions at
the beginning, then nearly every particle should already be entangled
with all others, to some degree. I don't know how long entanglement
really persists though. Or the degree to which an entanglement would
continue to affect future entanglements.

The degree of the history of interactions that are maintained is a
question I wish I could shout at a group of MIT freshmen. Because they
could probably tell me. And yes, I would probably shout this question
at a crowd of people at MIT.  Hey, when you want to freaking know the
answer, you want to know! *I HAVE QUESTIONS, PEOPLE!* And they are
hard! It's like going to the bathroom. Sometimes you just gotta know.

If it holds, then everything is like this Quantum Web of particles,
which is a graph where every particle's state is describable by its
product of previous interactions. The graph can be arranged in a few
ways and reoriented to help find paths/trees for one specific
particle. You could try to identify the specific particles that form
it's interactions and all the dependencies as well. Particles which
do not have quantum effects like this could be combined to form "new"
particles, which do not have such dependencies ... maybe.

It should be possible to Quantum Web into more localized neighborhoods
of matter that has interacted more recently. We could assume that
matter close to us is more likely to have interacted recently than
something lightyears away.  Something similar to the cosmic background
radiation might emerge. As we peer further into the history of
entanglements, we could deduce how local particles are entangled and
then infer the average effect that distant particles may have.

Again, it's all pure speculation. If I ever make it out of this
invisible fence and up to the MIT campus in Boston, I'll be sure to
shout questions at strangers. But until then, I really don't have
anyone to talk to or ask. *C'est triste.*

### Quantum Broadband

#### WTF, Comcast!! Where you at?

> So ... what if matter really forms this quantum channel of
> communication and the reason SETI hasn't picked up alien signals is
> because their all talking on another channel. That's my personal
> answer to Fermi's paradox. That or

If we can tap into matter across the universe, what if we can use
those quantum mechanical mechanisms, coupled with the
[universal language](/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html)
concept I wrote about in April 2016. Could we pair these two together
to join a cosmic internet full of alien life forms the universe over?
Could we network with those aliens using quantum mechanics and
identify particle pairings which are entangled without having physical
access to both?

### Cosmic Computational Complexity

This is a crucial question to answer. Perhaps it's better off left as
a science fiction scenario, but if it were possible, then we could
leverage the entire universe as a massive computer. It's basically
cosmic internet! And the customer service probably beats cable
internet. They have light years to cross, my friend. And they still
beat the cable company!

At that point, we shed most of the spatial restrictions on the
computational capacity of the universe. We can leverage the whole
thing, regardless of whether there's a Big Crunch or a Big Freeze. It
won't really matter. Galaxies should stay mostly in tact,
regardless. They just drift so far apart that they are separated by
intractible distances.

#### It's the Freaking Star Gate!

**Side Trek:** What if stars *are* such a massive network of
computers, because of the possible interconnectedness of all matter?
In other words, there could be a quantum virus harnessing entanglement
that impregnates stars with a self-replicating form of quantum
information, eventually transforming that star into a node in a
universal network. It's like a cosmic game of tag with stars. You just
have to physically get to each one first.

And: when you throw Superintelligent AI into the mix with this idea --
or any concept where there is a massive universal communication medium
-- how does that change the implications of AI? It means that AI would
merge together with this cosmic network of other superintelligent AI's
and join this hivemind virtualization cluster in the sky. I wonder
what they'd talk about...

It'd be pretty cool though because this maximizes our capacity for
virtualizing a universe inside ours.

## All is One, One is All

What does any of this have to do with consciousness? Quantum mechanics
may lay the framework for a universally connected hivemind, whether or
not we need a superintelligent being to dock into the cosmic
supercomputer.

What we learn about quantum mechanics and philosophy over the next 50
years will radically change our worldview. If my wild guesses in this
article are even close, it may already be possible for bizarre
paranormal abilities like telepathy to exist, leveraging the Quantum
Web. It'd be easier for ancient people to discover such things, as
they wouldn't be so blinded by science. I give science such a hard
time, but it's really the only way we can confidently say we know
something.

This all feeds back into the topics I was discussing in the section on
informational entropy. Faster, further reaching communication networks
enable us to accelerate the rate at which we share information. This
causes the distribution of ideas to flatten, as information and
knowledge becomes omnipresent. This means that, back here in our
corner of the universe, we can contemplate and recombinate more
ideas. We become more conscious. From communication. From diversity.
