---
title: "Facets of Greatness - The Unknown - Monumental Accidents"
categories: "blog facets-of-greatness"
tags: "business psychology philosophy sociology leadership"
headline: "What Bonsai Teaches Us About Life"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "And if we consider humanity to be the product of all the ideas
available to our collective minds, shouldn't we embrace diversity of
mind, body and culture as strengths?  These people who have endured
challenge after challenge in their lives and whose minds will no doubt
contain a wholly different range of memories and ideas: we should see
them as luminaries who can see things we could never imagine."
---

So, again, the unknown facet represents what the other facets fail to
encompass, as well as the mystery, which is unknowable.  The first
lines of the Tao Te Ching summarize it best.



### &#x0CB2; [The Modular Mind](#the-modular-mind)

### &#x0CB2; [Engineering Culture](#engineering-culture)

### &#x0CB2; [Embracing Diversity](#embracing-diversity)

### &#x0CB2; [Humanity as the Sum of our Capacity for Thought](#humanity-as-the-sum-of-our-capacity-for-thought)

### &#x0CB2; [Diversity of Experience](#diversity-of-experience)

### &#x0CB2; [What Bonsai Teaches Us About Life](#what-bonzai-teaches-us-about-life)

### &#x0CB2; [Independence == Ownership](#independence-equals-ownership)

### &#x0CB2; [Could Anyone Spare a Donut for my Coccyx?](#could-anyone-spare-a-donut-for-my-coccyx)

### &#x0CB2; [All In All, That's Life!](#all-in-all-thats-life)


<a name="the-modular-mind" />

# &#x0DA7; [The Modular Mind](#the-modular-mind)

A mind which is restricted to specialized tasks is less capable and
less dynamic.  This is because consciousness coordinates the modular
features of the mind, dynamically, to perform higher level tasks.
Therefore, if you've restricted the development of your mind to a
smaller set of tasks, then it should follow that you have strengthened
those modular features of your mind to a lesser extent.  And
therefore, your mind may be capable of a smaller space of available
higher level tasks to some degree of efficiency.

I have thoroughly discussed this in
[Category Theory, Cognition and Epistemology](/posts/2015-08-23-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-one.html).

Therefore, as technology replaces the day to day activities of our
mind and completely replaces some required tasks, then it should also
follow that our mind will become *less capable*.  That is, unless we
recognize that and utilize something like social engineering to ensure
that as we embark on this transition, we do not find ourselves
fatally cornered, surrendered completely to some simple facet of life,
to which our connection was severed several generations ago.  Some
people like to bring up genetic engineering and brain-computer
interfaces, but let me just state clearly: those technologies can go
horribly wrong.  And to some extent, there will be problems.

<a name="engineering-culture" />

# &#x0DA7; [Engineering Culture](#engineering-culture)

#### In Anticipation of the Singularity

As technology accelerates, we must adjust our culture so that we can
retain the capacity to proficiently operate these base cognitive
features.  Short term memory and working memory are now less necessary
than they used to be.  So is awareness of one's location.  No one
bothers to memorize directions or phone numbers any more.  These
high-level tasks leverage those modular cognitive functions.  If you
remove enough of the need for the tasks, then you gradually remove the
need for the functions.  And you end up with ...

![Idiocracy](/img/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents/idiocracy.jpg)

#### Idiocracy

Furthermore, not only do the cultural incentives disappear for these
high-level tasks, but so do the economic incentives.  To perform at
school or work, technology displaces the human mind more and more.
This isn't something to fear, per se, but we do need to anticipate
these changes, both to the average range of human lifestyles but also
to the economy.  Automation means more people will be out of work. As
long as we stay on top of understanding how this transition will
affect humanity and the economy, we'll be OK, barring some
catastrophic event or conflict.

Why is anticipation of the singularity important? Someone that wants
to build something in this transitionary world, then it is paramount
to become aware of how that world will change, in order to anticipate
how their energy would best be utilized.  At least, to avoid the
frustration that is ...

![Simpsons Did It](/img/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents/simpsons-did-it.jpg)

Nothing is more frustrating than working on a project for several
months, just to find that some other team is more adequately
positioned to seize that market.

<a name="embracing-diversity" />

# &#x0DA7; [Embracing Diversity](#embracing-diversity)

### Of Body, Mind and Culture

Because our mind combinates various ideas and processes into
higher-level ideas and behaviors, and because those people who face
unique challenges are forced to cope with unique ideas and behaviors,
then isn't it in our interest to leverage to the fullest extent the
experience that those people have to offer?  By embracing those people
who expand our minds by sharing difficult or unique experiences --
those we can't have or can't completely relate to -- doesn't that make
us stronger?

There is value in homogenizing some aspects of culture, but homogeny
is the mother of weakness. Cultural homogeny means that members of a
culture can be more simply and efficiently motivated towards some
end. At the same time, homogeny leads to weakness by reducing our
ability to provide robust cultural defenses.  It limits the scope of
ideas that we can combinate in order to discover new ones.  And it
makes us more vulnerable, since we are restricted to that set of
ideas.

Furthermore, the degree of diversity distinguishes United States from
every other country on earth.  There are plenty of other cultures with
plenty of diversity, but none to the extent that the US does.  So,
while there is some conflict that arises surrounding diversity, with
my points above, doesn't that actually imply that diversity is a
distinguishing strength of the US? A culture rich with diverse ideas
and people is resilient against external factors. It is more difficult
to internal or external subversion, for example.

It has actually been shown that cultural dissonance drives
intelligence because of the struggle to understand and interoperate
with a foreign culture eventually empowers the mind. This brilliant
article from the Washington Post,
[The Secret to Immigrant Genius](http://www.wsj.com/articles/the-secret-of-immigrant-genius-1452875951),
describes some brilliant studies that elaborate on why this is.
Another lesson to be learned is that, no matter what challenges you
face, if you struggle to push harder, your mind will be strengthened
and you will be rewarded.  The degree to which your mind can be
strenthened us highly variable, depending on your condition.  I also
wrote an article suggesting
[Language Therapy for Autism and Traumatic Brain Injury](/posts/2015-01-28-language-therapy-for-asd-and-tbi.html).

At the same time, diversity presents challenges. Multiculturalism
isn't easy and all too often the interests of one culture dominate
that of others. It can be more difficult to unify people to fight or
the convey the urgency of uniting towards a higher purpose.  I t's
incredibly important for our world to retain and strengthen this
ability to protect ourselves from the chaos resulting from strained
relationships or turbulent economics or some catastrophe.

> If anyone was wondering what my beliefs are, exactly.  There you go.

America is a patchwork of various cultures, all assimilated to some
varying degree.  by assuming that we should all melt into a single
culture, we will actually lose our greatest strength.  Again, our
cultural diversity is one thing that america has that no other culture
on earth can match.  It can be difficult at times, but that just means
we need to identify the common thread that connects us all.  We all
bleed the same color.  We do still face different challenges, but we
all go to the same place eventually.

<a name="embracing-our-differences" />

# &#x0DA7; [Embracing Our Differences](#embracing-our-differences)

Far too many people associate being different with weakness.  They
consciously or subconsciously seek to identify what makes others
different and they point it out, questioning it. Or provoking
situations with exemplify it. Many people accept our differences, but
occasionally people will try to use it in some way. Even those who
claim to be advocates, which is sometimes used as a shield.

And, with respect to themselves, instead of embracing their unique
differences or disabilities, too many of us try to hide from them.  To
each their own path.  No one has the right to tell you to live one way
or another.  That is, IMO, if you respect the same right in others.

Some of us have quirks in how our minds function or have other minor
differences.  Too many of us seek to lie to oursives by distorting our
true self to seek conformity.  We assume that whatever it is that
makes us different must make us weak, instead of stepping back and
seeing it for what is is, which can often be a strength. Instead we
see whatever part of us that doesn't conform as being some unnecessary
appendage that should be amputated and cauterized before it threatens
our conformity.  And possibly makes us a target by causing us to stick
out or attract attention. By accepting this, we delude ourselves into
robbing ourselves of our strengths.

As an example, blind and deaf people have minds that are fundamentally
different than those of "normal people." This is usually considered a
weakness by others and is no doubt difficult to endure.  Yet,
according to my theory of mind above and in previous articles, then
because this person has a limited range of sensory input, then the
rest of their mind develops different and utilizes their cognitive
functions differently.  Very differently and this can be evidenced in
plenty of studies with fMRI data.  And therefore, this person has a
different perspective or a different shape to their mind, which is
unavailble to the neurotypical or the "normal" person. Or at the
least, this person as a wildly different range of experiences.

<a name="humanity-as-the-sum-of-our-capacity-for-thought" />

# &#x0DA7; [Humanity as the Sum of our Capacity for Thought](#humanity-as-the-sum-of-our-capacity-for-thought)

And if we consider humanity to be the product of all the ideas
available to our collective minds, shouldn't we embrace diversity of
mind, body and culture as strengths?  These people who have endured
challenge after challenge in their lives and whose minds will no doubt
contain a wholly different range of memories and ideas: we should see
them as luminaries who can see things we could never imagine.

<a name="diversity-of-experience" />

# &#x0DA7; [Diversity of Experience](#diversity-of-experience)

Knowing how important diversity is to personal growth, it's also
important to recognize that a wide range of experiences and a
self-directed life is crucial for ourselves and our children.  People
need to be able to think for themselves and make their own mistakes
... most of the time.  Sometimes it's crucial to intervene, but too
often and you'll stagnate or interfere with or completely redirect
that person's development.  Maybe that's for the best, but who can be
the judge?  We must have the wisdom to respect the beauty of things
being inherantly perfect as they are, where any form of intervention
would only destroy that thing or mar it's beauty.  On the other hand,
in the case of our children or friends, we need to balance that with
the wisdom of knowing when to act.

There are lots of parallels with between specific artforms and other
aspects of life. As you progress in skill with some artform, you begin
to consciously and subconsciously draw parallels between it and life.
Your mind is recognizing some of the
[epiphenomena](/posts/2016-05-13-facets-of-greatness-knowledge-meta-and-epi.html)
found in the practice of that artform.

<a name="what-bonzai-teaches-us-about-life" />

# &#x0DA7; [What Bonsai Teaches Us About Life](#what-bonzai-teaches-us-about-life)

One artform that takes decades to master is that of bonsai trees.  It
requires tonnes of difficult-to-acquire experience on how environment,
nutrition, genetics, trimming, tying, twisting, etc. affect the
development of the trees. Any interference, intentional or not,
results in the redirection of the tree's energy, but you can't
actually control how the tree uses that energy.  And too many such
interventions end up impeding that tree's ability to grow or causing
it to die.

Bonsai is an art where one seeks to control change to meet some
aesthetic goal, through an interface which restricts the set of
actions.  And this is a skill in itself.  By practicing bonsai or some
other skill that requires such a restricted interface, especially
one in which large amounts of time are required, our mind can leverage
this knowledge towards other high-level cogntitive behaviors.  Or, I'd
like to believe, at least.  Another similar skill is building a ship
in a bottle.  You have a restricted interface to work with and it can
be incredibly frustrating.

<a name="independence-promotes-acceptance-of-self-culpability" />

# &#x0DA7; [Independence Promotes Acceptance of Self-Culpability](#independence-promotes-acceptance-of-self-culpability)

It's important to for someone to maintain an idea of independence in
their development.  And this is why maintaining authentic freedom is
important for America.  If you're raising a child and you constantly
intervene in an opaque manner, then it's now obvious to that person
that you've altered their course.

For me, I got hung up on court-mandated drug treatment's effect on my
life.  It only served to solidify my sentiment towards it.  Again, for
me, it drove my urge to continue to rebel against drug policy in
America.  I simply used the extensive group therapy treatment programs
as a platform to spread the message and strategies to resist the
policies.  Some of the people needed to be in those classes and didn't
need to hear what I had to say. I get the feeling that I was in those
classes because of some interference, possibly politically motivated.
And possibly due to my mom, who personally knew the "psychologist" who
recommended the extensive treatment, which more than doubled my
license suspension period...

It can be very difficult to intervene in such a way that is
transparent and effective.  Again, who should be the judge of what is
effective for someone's life and goals?  But it's worth the effort, as
that person retains their sense of independence.  Just as their
sense of success will belong to them, so will their setbacks,
struggles and sense failure.  They will own it.  One issue that
overcomplicates everything for me is the fact that, over the past
decade, I have had a license and a car for less than two years.  That
makes it nearly impossible for me to accomplish much of anything with
my life.  I have only overburdened my family and unnecessarily so.  I
have overutilized every person willing to help me out and because of
continued persecution, I have given almost nothing in return. The way
I have been treated is bullshit. It doesn't matter how talented or
smart I am, if I'm living on a proverbial island after burning every
bridge I had.

<a name="independence-equals-ownership" />

# &#x0DA7; [Independence == Ownership](#independence-equals-ownership)

And finally, even though it'd be great to receive credit for the
various things I may or may not have set in motion, it's impossible to
prove who set what in motion.  The only credit I could claim is that I
was smart enough to say the right (or wrong) things to some people who
may have influence.  And I'm not sure the good resulting from my
actions outweighs the bad.  It's hard to be certain of anyone's intent
in any situation to be honest.

Honestly, in my case, while I'm bursting with creativity, there are so
many other people who are far more capable of leading a team to take
on some lofty pipe dream than I am.  Who knows whether or not it'd
work out and one should own both their successes and failures. And a
corollary of this is that if you are hard at work on some project,
then you also need to be aware of how your efferts are perceived, if
you care about getting credit or recognized.

In my situation, it seems like people are quick to say that I'm not
working hard enough.  What the fucking shit?! If it was up to me, I'd
work 12 hour days, six to seven days a week, without blinking.  My
problem is that -- because of my god-forsaken life situation -- I
cannot actually utilize any more than 20% of my free time.  And
furthermore -- again -- I feel compelled to mention the fact that not
a single person has contributed more than an hour to any idea that
I've worked on in the past five years.  Try working your ass off for
five years, while no one appears to give a shit, and then basically
being told that you failed because "you're lazy," and "you didn't try
hard enough."  And basically, that nothing I ever did or said
mattered.  That, I should just give up and paint.  I'm not even
fucking allowed to DJ at my family's skating rink anymore because of
this dumb fucking bullshit.  Bullshit doesn't quite describe it. It
feels like i'm straight up fucking a Triassic pile of shit from
Jurrasic Park.

A round of applause for the American Dream, please...

A word of advice, don't mimic my behavior. I forgot that when you get
raped in the ass, you're not supposed to talk about it. I keep getting
the feeling that *ooooohhh something's coming*, but if life has taught
me one thing: do not let yourself be played with your hopes and
dreams, until someone gives you something you can see, touch or
taste. So, yeh, I'm an asshole.  I wish I wasn't.  I really, realllly
do.  But, it's a bit hard to sit down because no one bothered to use
lube when they fucked me in the ass.  I need one of these:

<a name="could-anyone-spare-a-donut-for-my-coccyx" />

# &#x0DA7; [Could Anyone Spare a Donut for my Coccyx?](#could-anyone-spare-a-donut-for-my-coccyx)

![DONUTS!](/img/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents/a-donut-for-your-coccyx.jpg)

And it'd be much better to own my failures.  However, as for
startups, I can't ever really say that I have tried.  No one listened
to me in 2011 or 2012 or 2013.  I am so sick of working on this crap
when it is clear that, regardless of my talent or wide range of
experience, I totally forgot *Rule Number One*:

> Rule #1: Don't ever fucking let David Conner win.  Fuck that lazy,
> druggie piece of shit.

And remember, anything is possible!  If your name isn't David
Conner.  Now, please excuse me, while I melt my fucking face off.

#### For Fans of Kaizo Mario and Masochists in General, Amazon Recommends:

### A Rubik's Cube in a Klein Bottle

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZMC61C5tigA" frameborder="0"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Here's a Bonsai Shokunen

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/119134995?badge=0"
width="640" height="338" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen
mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe> <p><a
href="https://vimeo.com/119134995">American Shokunin</a> from <a
href="https://vimeo.com/ryanjbush">Ryan Bush</a> on <a
href="https://vimeo.com">Vimeo</a>.</p>

<a name="all-in-all-thats-life" />

# &#x0DA7; [All In All, That's Life!](#all-in-all-thats-life)

Please don't take anything I say too seriously.  I am laughing my ass
off as I write this. My writing is often the only place to vent, as I
am not actually allowed to express myself to another living human
being.  I have been perpetually (and possibly intentionally) isolated
for the better part of a decade, like I'm some kind of human cancer or
virus or some shit.  I have literally been alluded to as a "cancer" by
a very few people in some unnamed subculture.  And the only person I
have at home is my mom.  She's the only person I talk to on some days
and our relationship is so strained that she doesn't have the energy
or willingness to listen to me bitch.  I can confidently say that the
problems in my life are -- to a minority of people --
ABSO-FUCKING-LUTELY NOT INTENDED TO BE RESOLVED.

So, again, if you'll excuse me, I'm very fucking confused and writing
in my blog is the only place I have to vent.  It is bullshit, but
I have no support system with which to talk to.  I have been told by
my family that, because of my reluctance to give up, I am "crazy" and
I "belong in a hospital."

Again, I challenge you to write 20,000 to 30,000 words on leadership.
If you criticize me, then what do you have to say?  Obviously, there
are people out there who are more agreeable, but look honestly at what
I have been through.  And how can someone read the 20,000 words I have
published in the past 48 hours and reasonably conclude that I am not
in touch with reality, unless there is some aspect of reality I am not
being shown. How can someone allude that I am delusional because I do
not understand my own capabilities?  Absolutely ridiculous.  I have a
lot to learn and a ton of room for growth, but I am absolutely not
delusional about my skillset or range of experience. Be the next
person to make a Steve jobs joke, I fucking dare you.
