---
title: "The Paradox of Creativity"
categories: blog
tags: "philosophy singularity postmodernism metamodernism"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Honestly, as dysfunctional as I have been, I miss whatever part of me
thought to write this down.

Exponential development of culture threatens to detach us from the
aspects of life that precipitate creativity.  The nature of
postmodernism, combined with desensitization and the pruning of
adjunct appurtenance supplanted by technology, all may lead us to a
place where it is incredibly difficult to form new ideas. Even
distinguishing novel ideas becomes difficult.  The motivation for
discovery is mostly diminished, as the effort required to identify and
demonstrate novelty intensifies. Yet, novelty's increasing scarcity
will augment the rewards for a select few.

In a world where almost everything has been discovered, how does one
cultivate creativity? There is a skill of creating something without
knowing about it.  Some ideas are just natural extensions of others;
maybe two to three steps away.  If you're lucky, you'll have a head
start on those innovations which are so close the something that
exists and is well known.  Yet, these ideas will naturally be reached
by most people who think about them.

Other ideas and techniques are much more difficult to reach. If you're
lucky, you identify something truly new that can be recombinated with
everything applicable. These gems may require excruciating
introspection and magnificent insight.  Being capable of this kind of
creativity is a skill! Some have a talent for it, but it can be
practiced, improved and understood. It is not some mysticism only
possible for eccentrics.

### Life is Miracle Grow for Creatives

Some artists seem to have personalities that naturally enable them to
be more creative.  It can be some strength of character that the have,
like an inquisitive thirst for variety in experience or a curiousity
for understanding what most would consider distasteful. Or maybe some
quirk or deficiency that drives the experiences to nurture
creativity. Often, one becomes creative out of raw struggle to
transcend limitation or understand some challenge.  They develop such
an intimate, intricate knowledge of a domain because their thirst
consumes them.  They articulate this understanding by filling their
works with vividly distinguished statements demonstrating depth of
knowledge about those domains.

### Windmills on Broadband

Limitations to communication and cultural transmission have been
evaporating since the introduction of broadband and pervasion of
internet video. When I wanted to learn how to windmill from the
[Mother Goose Ultimate Windmill Guide](https://web.archive.org/web/20050415014353/http://www.angelfire.com/hiphop2/mothergoose/).
It was hard as shit to teach myself that.  After a few months of
rolling around in my garage, I miraculously met a bboy that helped me
get continuous mills down. My point is, in case you just popped out of
a coma, every formerly obscure subculture from breakdancing to
cup-stacking has been spreading like wildfire. In the 90's, if you
weren't in an urban area, you never saw bboy's breaking it down,
unless you rented Beat Street from Blockbuster.

> My favorite aspect of breakdancing? It's a skill that you can
> practice and pride yourself on, where the only requirement is
> physical coordination and a pair of shoes. And maybe some parachute
> pants.

The internet lead to an acceleration of modernization on par with the
phenomenon of modernization itself.  By 2006, after YouTube firmly
established itself, instruction or exposure for nearly any subculture
you could be interested became available over a broadband connection,
facilitating the recombination of those subcultures into new
artforms.  Broadband was the equivalent of strapping a jet turbine to
modernization.

![Pinto](/img/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity/pinto.jpg)

#### How Fast You Gotta Go to Get to Orbit in That Bad Boy?

The speed at which data could barrel through Al Gore's series of tubes
no longer held us back. The next major growth restraints were average
time spent online, communication response time and service
availability, which were eliminated by iPhone and smartphones by 2010.

### Harnessing Isolation

When I first started jamskating, from about 2003 until early 2005, I
only had one person to practice with. Youtube wasn't available, I had
just upgraded from dial-up to broadband and we couldn't travel to
learn moves from other skaters. So we were forced to work with what we
had and we struggled hard to come up with our own stuff. It was hard,
but if we didn't try to create moves, we would have been limited to
maybe two dozen. Because we spent so much time thinking about what
constituted a move in search of new combo's, we began to intuitively
deconstruct what we knew and eventually created a plethora of new
stuff .... Of course, now that I look for my 2006 singles/doubles
videos online, they are *all conveniently missing*, instead of just
*mostly* conveniently missing.  Wow. This is not the first time I've
been scrubbed, it's honestly $#@!'ing typical. Maybe this is for the
best?  LMAO.  Fuck it, take what they will, I will always know...

... Moving on



However, in a world standing on the shoulders of giants -- who are, in
turn, standing on giants all the way down -- several things become
limiting factors for creativity which present unique challenges. There
is the sheer scale of time require to learn all the necessary skills
to advance a field.  This is a huge issue and so is all the repeat
information you'll need to process when learning the required skills.

Yet there is another more subtle limiting factor for us inhabitants of
our postmodern world, where mostly everything has been done in some
way or another.  In a world where mostly everything has been done in
some way or another, people have less of a reward system in place to
exercise their creative muscles.

### Metamodernism

Metamodernism looks at cycles that transition between
the modern and postmodern trends.  These cycles are like waves that
ripple in a pond.  Modernism creates the original waves that bring
together disparate cultural elements, which were originally separated
geographically.  And postmodernism is a reaction to modernism, where
it is clear in art and culture that people seek to differentiate
themselves by reaching further or seeking to combinate elements that
others have missed.  So, postmodernism is represented by the waves
that are reflected off the edge of the pond that mix and mesh
together.  But, since there is always cultural disparity created by
the dispersion of new culture, there is a continual, cyclical
interplay between the notion of modernism and postmodernism.  That's
how I understand it anyways. Also, IMO, metamodernism is about seeking
to understand the trends and factors that create the basis on which
art movements are driven and on which art can be judged to be novel
and original.

Read this fantastic article to learn more: [[Re]construction:
Metamodern ‘Transcendence’ and the Return of
Myth](http://www.metamodernism.com/2015/10/21/reconstruction-metamodern-transcendence-and-the-return-of-myth/)



    - but also, people living in a postmodern world, where mostly everything has been done in some way or another
  - but, in this postmodern world, everyone can learn anything they want by going to wikipedia
    - and this is how you most efficiently develop talent to be most valuable in todays world
  - we live in a world that's like 2 steps away from downloading jujitsu from the matrix.
    - but you can't so easily teach someone to be as creative as the people who discovered all this in the first place
  - so this is a kind of paradox.
    - in order for people to take advantage of the things we've discovered as a society
      - there is more efficient way to teach them, but one that may or may not lead to cultivating a creative aptitude
    - but having lots of people who are incredibly smart, but less creative
      - especially in a world where anyone can stream a youtube video of any combination of amazing things
        - and the experience of watching this video can stem off the desire to actually do it
          - "Simpson's did it"
      - this may mean that we accelerate our implementation of science and technology,
        - but that we stagnate our progression of it, eventually
    - actually i don't think this is as much of an issue as it could be, immediately
      - but that it very well could be an important issue soon
        - say, 3 to 4 generations into this phenomenon of postmodern quasiomniscience
        - by that time, if we don't expend a bit of time and energy properly understanding how we got here
          - and the skills that were used and what motivated us, that could very well be lost
          - this has happended time and time again in history:
            - people understand where the have come from (the "what" ??)
              - and can mostly accurately understand one to two generations of history
            - people may remember the "how"
              - or they may be amazed at pyramids or stone statues on easter island
            - but they almost always forget the "why"
          - and this phenomenon of not understanding "why" will become infinitely more difficult to understand
            - in a world of overdriven sensory overload -- this is already a problem
            - there's so much information out there,
              - that it becomes difficult to discern things which were once just common sense
              - and it becomes common to philosophize and "discover" so mode of thinking or some phenomenon
                - that everyone used to be familiar with
            - you can already see how this has effected us by contrasting eating habits now versus 100 years ago
              - and then observing how that effects our living habits
              - and correlating it to what the average 14 year old knows about the world
            - the skills and hard work that we gave up in the name of convenience
              - also endowed us with lots of useful knowledge
              - yet, we focus on how skills were mostly an encumbrance,
                - and we totally overlook how replacing those skills with convenience
                  - leads to a vacuum in newer generations, where there was once experience and knowledge
            - so common agriculture practices are mostly lost to this generation
              - but there are great insights that can be attained from working in these trades for a year or two
                - this is stuff that you'll only understand by doing it yourself for a protracted amount of time
                - and it's stuff that someone can explain it to you and it'll go in one ear and out the other
                  - if they can even put it into words.
    - but i'm saying this phenonena of no longer understanding the value of a skill that's been replaced by convenience
      - relates to this paradox of creativity,
        - whereby when education is so streamlined that a bachelor's can be attained in 10 years
          - or when innovation is driven by AI
        - we'll forget the value of being creative
      	  - and it won't be something that we'll realize that we miss once it's gone
      	    - because even if we could turn away from the adumbration of sensory overload,
      	      - we won't know where to look to

#PostModernism #ParadoxOfCreativity In the future, we'll forget creativity's worth & it won't be something we realize we miss once it's gone

#ParadoxOfCreativity Bc if adumbrating sensory overload doesn't occlude us, the path from whence we came will be hidden and inconstructible


- the psychological/sociological implications of a post-modern(?) world
  - title: the death of creativity in a post modern world
    - example: evolution of tv from 4 channels to dozens to the internet
      - loss of universal memes.
    - example: idioms and evolution of language
    - example: rodney mullen interview in bones brigade?
    - example: Ezra Pound's 1934 injunction to "Make it new!" (modernism)
    - metamodernism
  - decades ago, everyone was exposed to common cultural factors
    - there were a limited number of genre's of music
    - as more genre's of music were created and existing genres were recombinated
      - more subcultures evolved and our society became more culturally fragmented, psychologically
    - memetically and epimemitcally, this changes how people are psychologically imprinted
      - this means that subcultures of people developed that shared much fewer universal psychological imprints
  - today, everything that has been done has been done before
    - all new genres of music/movies simply recominations of existing genre's and works
    - everything blurs together and nothing is pure.  nothing is original.
  - there are many means of communicating with, motivating, relating to, empathizing with and manipulating people
    - which only work when certain psychological imprints are (nearly) universally shared
    - what happens as our cultural artifacts become less pure and more diluted?
    - what happens as our cultural articifers (musicians, directors, poets, etc) and people in general
      - become more capable than ever of creating, but less capable of standing out
        - or creating something wholly originally
        - or creating something pure, which is less influenced by what's come before
    - communicating through symbols implied by art that is well-known to a subset of your audience
      - it's only possible to communicate with these symbols when both the symbols and their meaning are well-known
      - example playing "what it's like" on guitar at a party
  - there are some insights about creativity which can only be learned experientially
    - by being extremely creative in a particular field and truly pushing the boundaries
    - there are many insights which when learned firsthand through experience
      - will resonate through your being and facillitate a much greater change
      - than anyone could ever experience through the study of philosophy
    - begin with these insights about insights
  - so therefore, the death of creativity is very depressing indeed.
