---
title: "Facets of Greatness - Knowledge - Meta and Epi"
categories: blog
tags: "business psychology philosophy sociology leadership"
headline: "I cannot teach anybody anything, I can only make them think."
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Finding true success means that you have to understand everything at a
much deeper level.  Once you have this deeper understanding, then you
can exploit that knowledge differential towards your success.  This
knowledge differential is the difference between your deeper
understanding of a subject against that of the commonly understood
model for your subject of interest.  But you need to be intimately
familiar with each model!"
---

I'm going to start off by discussing a concept that may seem hard to
understand and a bit philosophical, but that I believe to be
irreplaceable.  Then I'll describe how to use models of the world
around us that we all form.  However, what most people miss is that it
isn't just how you understand the world or some concept that is
important.  You must understand how other people have modeled this
concept because that is where you'll find the fuel for change.

There's a quote from someone like Socrates or Einstein and I can't
find it.  But basically, this person stated that the most intelligent
people don't just understand some topic, they understand how other
people understand it.  You'll see this when someone who is highly
intelligent debates someone else on some controversial topic because
they will be empathetic towards how that other person sees the world.
This is because that this intelligent person understands that other
persons model and viewpoint. This shows up in politics quite often
because we're all truly trying to solve the same problems: poverty,
disease, etc.  So it helps to be able to understand how someone
debating against you models some problem and it's solution.  You'll
also find that the most intelligent, but biased people quite clearly
comprehend the differences between their solution and others because
they *strategically* embue that understanding into their rhetoric, all
the while refusing to lose ground to that other person. These people
are incredibly smart, but not likely to listen.

## Metaphenomena and Epiphenomena

There's a concept that I believe is incredibly important to
understanding the world around us.  It's the meta, which is a prefix
based on the greek word for "after."  Aristotle used it to distinguish
his work *Physics* from the concepts discussed in *Metaphysics*,
meaning that which arose after physics.  The greeks did not use meta
in the sense that we do with english.  We instead refer to meta as
*within* or a denotation of self-reference: metaprogramming is about
programs that write programs.  Metadata is data about data.

This concept of the meta is fairly well-known, but I believe that meta
has a dual concept which is so similar, it's usually overlooked.  And
that is the concept of epi.  So, where meta drills down into the
phenomena which are self-referential in some phenomenon, epi goes in
the opposite direction.  It's a concept which is so similar that it's
often just referred to as meta.  It's very difficult to distinguish,
so I'm not sure I'll nail this correctly, but the concept of epi and
it's relationship as dual to meta is necessary.

### Metadata and Epidata

The metaphenomena of some phenomena are really the mappings between it
and itself that establish some whole or partial self-similarity --
it's kind of like an automorphism in category theory.  It's a bit
easier for me to explain some of these concepts in those abstract math
terms, but I'll refrain for the sake of retaining simplicity -- even
though that's hopeless, amirite? The epiphenomena of some phenomena
are instead transformative.  That is, the epiphenomena maps a pair or
set of phenomena. It requires mapping some phenomena to another, while
striving to preserve self-similarity by minimizing the number of
changes required for and induced by the transformation.

In this sense, *some* kinds of metadata are not metadata at all.  That
is a misnomer and they are epidata, which maybe seems trivial, but
it's important because as an indication of the higher-level
distinction between meta and epi, the exact definition of which I am
still searching for.  Metadata for a set of data cannot involve
mappings to other sets of data.  The metadata for a text file could
contain aggregates that only involve data from that text file: a count
of words, characters and sentences.  Another example would be the
topics contained in the text file.  The epidata for a text file could
contain the set of differences between it and another text file.  An
example of something that is traditionally thought of as metadata are
creation and modification timestamps.  But is this really data about
that specific data and how so?  It's truly the data about that piece
of data as it relates to some other external system: time.  In the same
sense: would the number of shares and tweets for this blog article be
metadata? IMO, it is epidata because it involves data about the
relationship between that specific piece of data and some external
system.

Establishing a distinction between metadata and epidata is crucial
because it emphasizes the nature of the dependency graph required for
producing some piece of data, which today would be simply known as
metadata.  That is, the piece of epidata that indicates the aggregate
number of shares for some blog requires access to the data for each
share.  If you don't have some level of access to that entire data set
and some mechanism for temporary storage, then you can't produce that
piece of epidata.  This notion of metadata and epidata can be applied
at various levels: you can have metadata about some set of data, which
would really be epidata about some piece of data in that set.

The reason I'm even discussing metadata and epidata in this article is
because it's a great example for drawing a distinction between the
concepts of meta and epi.  The utility of these two concepts is
irreplaceable in terms of making sense of our world. The ultimate
truth is that every concept can be defined in terms of it's
relationship to other concepts and their aggregates.  So, if you
understand how to look at some thing and draw parallels to some other
things that you already know, then you can use these parallels as an
incredibly useful tool to understand that new thing.

> AND YOU GET IT FO FREE!!

The concept of meta and epi maximize your ability to make inferences
about some new thing, using only your existing set of knowledge. The
only requirement is a familiarity with your mind and what you already
know. And optimally, you've also acquired a valuable set of knowledge
that propels you forward.  But even if you don't have it, you always
have a chance to learn.  I cannot emphacize my enthusiasm for access
to free knowledge online.  Tools like Coursera and random lecture
videos on YouTube have been invaluable for me.  I would not understand
the world as I do if I had never taken Coursera's Machine Learning and
Cryptography classes in 2012.  Those classes, amoung others, provided
me with tools for reasoning that I just wouldn't comprehend if I
hadn't taken them.

## Knowledge is power

These great people people value knowledge and systematize it's
acquisition.  They're intimately aware of what they don't know.  They
understand how to apply knowledge for gain.  They have the wisdom to
deftly perform when they don't have the knowledge.

They construct strategies based on what they learn.  Then they
enumerate the factors and dependencies of the factors in that
strategy.  They understand that in some industries or trades, there
are factors that are critical and there are factors that seem
critical, but fall away over time.

Most people believe that particular indicators and statistics drive
markets, prices, etc.  Usually the commonly understood model of
something is mostly true, but it's a facade that hides the deeper,
more complex machinery that truly drives the secret motion of things.
The commonly understood factors that drive business or drive human
behavior are too easy.  There isn't much value to be derived if
modeling a business on an oversimplistic model -- if everyone
understands it, where's the opportunity?  If that's all you had to
know to win, then everyone would do it -- whatever it is: business,
music, sales, acting, etc.

The commonly understood factors are just the basics and math is often
the key to modeling systems faster and more accurately.  Usually the
common model is based on a limited set of math.  It's accuracy and
predictions are limited because of this.  Finding true success means
that you have to understand everything at a much deeper level.  Once
you have this deeper understanding, then you can exploit that
knowledge differential towards your success.

This knowledge differential is the difference between your deeper
understanding of a subject against that of the commonly understood
model for your subject of interest.  But you need to be intimately
familiar with each model!  This is so you can understand the
opportunities created by the differences in your model vs. the common
model. And more important, you need to know what leads someone to
believe the common model accurately models a system and why.  You need
to know how people perceive errors in their model of a system and why.
Often this deeper understanding of a trade, a skill or a industry
comes from experience.  Thousands of hours on a subject.

Furthermore there are accurate models of subjects that just aren't
commonly understood yet.  So here, your more complete understanding
gives you an advantage.  You can profit from the disparity in
knowledge here -- but don't be evil, lol!  All joking aside, evil
behavior here includes misleading other people and network marketing
schemes.  Pure evil, unless your cousin pushes CrackStar or something.

But you have to know that, usually, competitive advantage in this case
doesn't last forever, if you depend on some better understanding of
how a market, product or industry works.  If other people manage to
find a better solution to the problem your system solves or if they
find a better model to the system themselves, then your opportunity
begins to fade.  So, unless you have IP that protects you, your
advantage here might only last until a more accurate model of that
system becomes the commonly accepted one.  Social media and SEO are
good examples here.  Some techniques work until they are commonly
known.  And in these cases, you need to posture yourself and your
organization for a healthy transition.  It's your responsibility to
your employees and your organization.


Also, there are factors which are perceived as being driving forces
and strong indicators which aren't really that useful. If you know how
people determine what is important in a marketplace, then you can
profit from the disparity between how they think it works and how you
know it works.  That is, again, you profit from the knowledge
disparity there -- but what is crucial is knowing when certain factors
in a model are going to be proper indications.  If you have experience
in knowing when a factor will determine a system's behavior and you
understand how this affects people's actions, then you can profit.

> A general example: Factor A is usually a good indicator of demand
> for Product X from Industry Y.  It's commonly accepted knowledge for
> stock brokers.  Maybe it's a dip in price for a particular
> commodity.  But your model says: this is true, except when Factor B
> and C supercede A.  In which case, it's actually an indication of
> lower demand for Product X. Then, you know the price is going to
> rise from people's expectations and their misguided purchase of
> stock from Industry Y.  So you know to sell your stock when the
> price rises from the aggregate effect of purchases.  Then, you wait
> for the inevitable drop in price that your model predicts.  Boom.
> Purchase more shares.  Make more money.  Simple as that (not really)

All of this "factor" and "model" bs is very generic, i know.  But it's
very usefull in more than just the stock market.  Everyone wants to
participate in Activity X or Trade Y wants to build a mental model of
how it works, especially if they want to participate competitively.
Some of these models are good and some are bad.  And some people just
exhibit irratic behavior.  But:

- Understanding what people believe
- Inferring their belief structure
- Comparing it to others
- Generalizing belief structures
- Comparing and contrasting them
- And understanding how that affects actions and results

These are crucial to identifying opportunity and mitigating risk in
nearly any market, any subject, any skill, any activity.

Furthermore, the effect these factors and models have grows and wanes.
People who are successful understand why Factor A seems dominant now,
but that it is Factor B which will be dominant in a decade.  So now is
a good time to prepare a venture that expects to profit from Factor B.
While everyone else is expecting Factor A to determine the market for
decades, this signals an opportunity to prepare for profiting from the
disparity in market forces there.

Yet, the only way you can capitalize here is by having the resources
to invest.  If you don't have resources to invest while the
opportunity is open, you can't exactly reap the rewards, nor can you
insulate yourself from a changing market.  In other words, you are
like a leaf in the wind, subject to forces beyond your control.

This is also why I'm so frustrated with being ignored when I had so
many startup ideas over the years.  It's only really an opportunity
until someone dominates the market.  I believe while there is a
plethora of opportunities now, the barrier to entry for technical
startups is going to rise slowly over the next decade.

> Baller Blockin' ... They straight up baller blockin'

And it's crucial to diversify your portfolio when market conditions
seem likely to change.  There's an important conflict of interest here
that many larger entities have: usually they don't want to compete
with themselves.  Why would they develop Product B which would return
20% the profits now when they could just shove their heads in the
sand.  Many businesses at this point pursue other strategies to
mitigate a new technology or product because they are not incentivized
to develop it.  In fact, it's quantifiably more profitable -- knowing
this technology is inevitable -- to stave it off as long as possible
than it would be to develop it themselves.  That is, if the profit
rate for Product A is really that much higher than Product B.  This is
a complicated scenario with several other courses of action, including
purchasing the competitor's IP and snuffing that baby in the cradle.

But, my point is -- heads. in. sand.  In this case, it's a hard sell
to a board of directors to invest in this risky new technology that
might slash through profit margins in 5 years or so.  Why would they
do that when they got a good thing goin on?  And convincing a public
company to do this, when the public shareholders have considerable
influence over the direction of a company?

> "You're going to do what to my dividends?"

Truthfully, the situation described above, where a company stagnates on
innovation because of conflict of interest probably doesn't play out
that way.  But often it can.  Yet, this signals more opportunity.  If
you know that a new technology is going to revolutionize an industry
and that the juggernauts of that industry can't shift gears fast
enough to capitalize on it, that's an opportunity.

Basically, to sum it up: you gotta know which way the wind blows to
understand how things are going to play out.  Knowledge is key to
constructing an accurate vision of how the world will change.
Instagram was an opportunity partially created because Apple updated
iOS to include the ability to apply filters to photos using OpenGL,
AFAIK.  Basically, if you know what new technologies are coming down
the pipeline, you can prepare to take advantage of them later.  So if
you know that adding OpenGL to iOS will enable features like instant
photo filters, you can prepare to code that shit as fast as you can
out of the gate.  But the key here is to stay in tune with upcoming
tech and understand how it will affect people's use of technology.

And knowing which way the wind blows means knowing which market forces
are going to be dominant and which are going to fall away.  It's
similar to complexity theory (aka Big-O Notation) for algorithms.
Some aspects of an algorithm might seem important and expensive at
first glance.  But in the end, when you apply that algorithm at scale,
those aspects just don't matter.  And this is one lesson to be learned
by employing economies of scale: some factors, like cost of
distribution or whatever, just fall away when your enterprise is
structure to employ economies of scale.

And understanding what market forces are dominant means sorting
through the sea of data and sorting through the noise.  People have
vested interest in getting you to believe something is true.  You have
to sort through all that and understand their incentives, behavior,
beliefs and signaling to find the truth.

### Next Up:

## Knowledge

Next up on Facets of Greatness: Knowledge, I'm going to deconstruct a
youtube video I made some time ago on how to become intelligent.  In
the meantime, I'm going to write about some of the other facets, such
as communication and signaling.
