---
title: "Facets of Greatness: Understanding the Political System"
categories: "blog facets-of-greatness"
tags: "business psychology leadership sociology savingtheworld
philosophy politics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Just to clarify right at the start: I support Trump for president. I
think the guy has some great ideas, though admittedly I had a hard
time supporting him until early 2016. The reason I support him is
because we're embarking on a transition and we need fresh ideas.

#### Hoo Wee! Can You Smell That?

## A [Whiff of Grapeshot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/13_Vend%C3%A9miaire)

![It's a Whiff of Grapeshot](/img/posts/2016-07-16-facets-of-greatness-understanding-the-political-system/whiff-of-grapeshot.jpg)

This another political philosophy entry in the
[Facets of Greatness](/posts/2016-05-12-facets-of-greatness-intro.html)
series. Our leaders need to understand the system, particularly some
of the tough to understand issues in the American Federal
Government. The people need comprehension on this points as well
because the system is designed such that the squeakiest wheel gets the
grease. It's a democracy and you have to be loud about what you
want. The system was designed this way and sometimes there are
problems that result from that, as noble as our founders' intentions
were. Other times, we feel these pain points when special interests
get in the way.

# But ... Why?

### &#x265E; [Diluted Representation](#diluted-representation)

### &#x265E; [Why is Washington Gridlocked?](#why-is-washington-gridlocked)

### &#x265E; [Reform Requires Building a Movement](#reform-requires-building-a-movement)

### &#x265E; [By It's Nature, Risk Helps Us Grow](#risk-helps-us-grow)

### &#x265E; [Economic Effects of Election Outcome](#economic-effects-of-election-outcome)

### &#x265E; [Socialism is Great!](#socialism-is-great)

### &#x265E; [21st Century Economics](#21st-century-economics)

### &#x265E; [Democracy is Susceptible to Misinformation](#democracy-is-susceptible-to-misinformation)

### &#x265E; [Immigration](#immigration)

### &#x265E; [The Singularity Implies Tectonic Cultural Shift](#singularity-implies-tectonic-cultural-shift)

### &#x265E; [I Can't Stand Citizens United, But...](#i-cant-stand-citizens-united)

### &#x265E; [Distribution of Power Across Generations](#distribution-of-power-across-generations)

### &#x265E; [America was Designed with Change in Mind](#america-was-designed-with-change-in-mind)

### &#x265E; [Of Governments and Video Game Design](#of-governments-and-video-game-design)

# Navigating the Political System

It's important to know how to navigate the political system in
Washington DC, but more important to understand the why's. We need to
have an appreciation of why it was designed in this way, as well as
the traditions behind the design aspects. If for no other reason than
to understand it out of a desire to leverage it for change, instead of
working against it.

One major pain point people feel right now: the legislative process
has been gridlocked. It was partly designed to hold back change,
unless the legislature receives strong enough signals from the people.
And our democracy has grown too large, so representation has been
diluted, per person.

<a name="diluted-representation" />

# &#x265E; [Diluted Representation](#diluted-representation)

One major problem our country deals with is variance in
representation. When the country was founded, there was approximately
one Representative per ~30,000 citizens. Actually less, if it's
considered in terms of number of households. Today, that's one
Representative per ~750,000 citizens! A major difference! The Senate
is even worse. Again, this is one of those things our founders foresaw
and understood would change as population grew.

How can we fix this, so that individual citizens have more influence?
It's tough! We can't add more Representatives, because it's sluggish
to get bills through the legislature as it is! But the people are
losing their connection to their congressmen and being crowded out
financially by special interests. The only practical feedback loop for
citizens to assert their opinion the election cycle! And during that
special time of year, politicians micromanage public opinion.
Incumbents display strong advantage and stick around, term after term.

That can't be the only mechanism for citizens to assert their
will. Yet, on the flip side, if there are too many opportunities for
citizens to provide feedback, then this can be used as a tool by the
media and special interests to pick off congressmen by manipulating
public opinion at key times. It's all so complicated.

<a name="why-is-washington-gridlocked" />

# &#x265E; [Why is Washington Gridlocked?](#why-is-washington-gridlocked)

Washington seems gridlocked on so many issues. This isn't a bug; it's
a feature. In part, this is how the system was designed by the
founders. They wanted a system where there would be two parties that
would need to vie for power. Our system differs from most republics
and democracies across the world. Our parties don't form coalitions.
Further, our bicameral system with a House and Senate is another
aspect to the Legislative branch that slows down rapid reform.

Delegated responsibilities, along with checks & balances, are assigned
to the House and Senate. These include the stipulation that taxes
*must* originate within the House of Representatives, so that the set
of lawmakers responsible for creating tax law are closer to the
people. This is also an example of a rule that finds itself
occasionally broken in recent times. This rule is amoung many, many
others in the Constitution and overal federal body of law, the
[Corpus Juris Secundum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corpus_Juris_Secundum),
that are outright ignored or bypassed through delegation to
beaurocracy. When these rules are bypassed, it's usually done for
expedience, convenience or to circumvent them subtly. When it happens,
it's rarely questioned in any significant capacity, ostensibly for the
sake of expedience. The lawmakers are not always following the rules
to the letter.

But most of all, the system of commitees requires that any laws
receive a ton of discussion before hitting the floor. This way, those
bills are well vetted by congressmen who are familiar with the issues
they revolve. And the votes can be tallied before it hits the
floor. Sometimes allowing an unprepared bill to pass committee is done
as an empty gesture, so lawmakers can say they tried. These committes
have good purpose, but can stall out quick change. Trust me, this one
got me time after time with drug law reform. I'm well familiar with
cosponsored bills left gasping for breath, suffocated by committee
politics. It's just the way the system is.

#### This Friction Promotes Stability in the Long Term

It makes a republic less susceptible to foreign influence, one of the
biggest weaknesses of a democratic government with fairly open
borders. This also prevents wild changes in policy implementations,
were we ever to have a fickle populace. Frequent fluctuations and
reversals in policy means that our economy, it's businesses and
industries don't have time to adapt. Reforms are expensive, regardless
of who supports them and regardless of whether they are justified and
beneficial in the longterm. They are expensive in terms of
implementation and in the cost to the economy. Businesses need to be
able to project and prepare for policy changes.

<a name="reform-requires-building-a-movement" />

# &#x265E; [Reform Requires Building a Movement](#reform-requires-building-a-movement)

Higher cost to reforms means that the people who want it most end up
winning. To change something in this country, you have to get popular
support, especially if a policy is contrary to special interests.

That means you have to build a movement. How do you build a movement?
You relate to people. You figure out how to connect to them. You get
them emotionally invested in something. If something else is more
important, then they'll gravitate towards that. But when people are
emotionally and financially invested, they care. They pay attention to
the news, the laws, the policies and the political games in
washington.

And what happens then? Smarter, well-researched policies
... generally.

<a name="risk-helps-us-grow" />

# &#x265E; [By It's Nature, Risk Helps Us Grow](#risk-helps-us-grow)

In the Nineties and Aughties, there were just too many people who
weren't paying attention. Because, for the most part, it all felt
good. Why? Cheap credit provided plenty of liquidity for the
economy. Cheap credit leads to misallocation of resources. We weren't
really aware there were problems or if we were, we didn't know why. We
weren't reading the signals.

Keynesian economics are great for promoting stability and resilience
against minor issues, but the drawback to cheap credit is that we can
numb ourselves against the pain we should feel that would force us to
change. Just to be clear, we need Keynesian policies and we need the
Fed. A stable economy means more accurate projections and anticipation
of trends.

<a name="economic-effects-of-election-outcome" />

# &#x265E; [Economic Effects of Election Outcome](#economic-effects-of-election-outcome)

Ever heard that the outcome of the presidential election affects the
economy? Policy & platform aside, does that mean that one president
would lead to a better economy and the other would lead to a worse
economy? Not really and again, that is a general statement which
doesn't take specific platform issues into account. However, the
outcome will always help some industries and hurt others. So it
doesn't imply a simple "growth" or "loss" of the economy as it implies
a shift of influence between various industries and businesses.

Once you take the specific platform issues and realistic policy
changes into account, then yes! there is a significant difference
between candidates. That guy gets to run the executive branch of the
US Government. You bet your ass one candidate is going to better than
the other.

<a name="socialism-is-great" />

# &#x265E; [Socialism is Great!](#socialism-is-great)

#### Until You Run Out of Money...

And just real quick, here's the deal with socialism: it's fucking
great! It's amazing! Right until your coffers dry up and you can't
fund your services. How you gonna do fund services without liquidity
to pay for them? Something like that wouldn't happen all at once, but
generally it does. And it's verrrry verry sneaky. It occurs on the
timescale of generations; not years, not election cycles.

<a name="21st-century-economics" />

# &#x265E; [21st Century Economics](#21st-century-economics)

#### We'll Need to Rewrite the Econ Textbooks

Are there problems? Yes! The prices in the US economy are generally
out of control and have been for years. This is tough if you don't
make much money. But this technological shift? Costs and prices are
going to drop. Longstanding economic assumptions will be challenged
and broken. It hasn't happened yet. It's not going to happen
overnight. But it will happen. And they're going to have to rewrite
the college economics textbooks for Micro and Macro.

<a name="democracy-is-susceptible-to-misinformation" />

# &#x265E; [Democracy is Susceptible to Misinformation](#democracy-is-susceptible-to-misinformation)

It can be difficult to relay the context of policy decisions to
average americans and then retain strategic advantage in the global
marketplace. China is mostly a closed country and they have so many
advantages in this regard. We just let people walk on over.

<a name="immigration" />

# &#x265E; [Immigration](#immigration)

#### It's a National Security Issue

I'm going to write an article on illegal immigration very soon. This
is mostly a national security issue and it's a long-term
problem. Again, it's sinister in that it's not a big enough issue to
tackle, so no one does. The consequences are easier to deal with if we
make tough decisions now. The tensions are worse if we keep
waiting. And my main point of contention here is that illegal
immigration is bad for everyone: legal citizens, legal immigrants and
especially illegal immigrants.

<a name="singularity-implies-tectonic-cultural-shift" />

# &#x265E; [The Singularity Implies Tectonic Cultural Shift](#singularity-implies-tectonic-cultural-shift)

There's a lot of change getting ready to go down in the whole
world. If you've been living under a rock, it stems from technology
and the tectonic cultural shift that's occuring. There are problems
with this. It's not going to be easy. and it's going to be fast. If we
do not nail it right, we're going to lose. Not everything, but we'll
lose pretty big. This isn't a high-probability risk, but it would be a
costly one. So we need to be prepared.

<a name="i-cant-stand-citizens-united" />

# &#x265E; [I Can't Stand Citizens United, But...](#i-cant-stand-citizens-united)

So, as much as I detest the Citizen's United decision, this is
actually one reason that there should be a lot of money in Washington
... for now! *Just hear me out!*

We need people who are well paid to research policy. And if you've
noticed, neither the Republicans nor the Democrats seem to want to do
much about it, as much as the people on both sides hate it. Why's
that? Both parties are sucking that teet. They are both gulping down
that cash. In part, it helps drive Washington.

Way too much money in politics is usually a bad thing. It leads to
corruption and bad decisions. I don't like Super PAC's for many
reasons. I detest them, actually. I can't stand money in politics. I
admire politicians who abstain from particular funding sources, like
Ron Paul and Bernie Sanders. And yes, Donald Trump, too. I can't
recall if he changed direction, but he didn't accept very much
money. And ya damn straight. Money comes with strings. Your grandma
might have given you money out of the goodness of her heart, but not
that lobbyist.

But right now, we need smart people in Washington getting paid good
money to research policy. And we need a lot of those people in the
system. Again, for now...

<a name="distribution-of-power-across-generations" />

# &#x265E; [Distribution of Power Across Generations](#distribution-of-power-across-generations)

Another common gripe is that the generation making decisions is not
the generation who feels the impact of them. The power in a republic
should be distributed across the generations, but the people that make
the most critical decisions should be the more senior generations.

Why? That's the subject for another post, but there are just some
things that you won't understand until you have experienced them. You
won't get it. Also, rapid change from the inexperienced younger
generation contributes to instability. Plato agrees. Read the
Republic.

<a name="america-was-designed-with-change-in-mind" />

# &#x265E; [America was Designed with Change in Mind](#america-was-designed-with-change-in-mind)

The country's systems were designed to anticipate centuries of change!
Centuries! The founders fully expected large changes in policy and
public sentiment after the founding of our country. And they did all
over the course of a hot summer in Pennsylvania. With no
air-conditioning.

The Articles of Confederation may have been a more idealistic
government, but let's be serious here: do you really think they
intended that to last? Not really. It was good enough. Good enough to
give our founders about a decade to figure out what would be great
enough to last centuries. That's what I mean. Yeh, Thomas Jefferson
might have wanted the Articles to last. It didn't have the power or
mechanism to tax states. That's like asking the Red Cross to run your
government.

But this is what I mean: they knew it was going to play out like
that. And what would you do? They just fought a revolution. Things are
tumultuous and tensions with the British are fierce. Do you think
Britain was going to play nice with foreign policy? No. They were
going to be subversive, I imagine. So if you have a temporary
government declared as the official thing, it gives you time to think
of the right policies worth fighting for and an opportunity to see how
the other side of the Atlantic is going to play.

Like Guinness, it's brilliant! And, IMO, this same foresight is evident
in the Constitution and Bill of Rights on the scale of centuries.

#### Brilliant Implementation of a Republic!

![Guinness, the best thing since nitrogenated beer...](/img/posts/2016-07-16-facets-of-greatness-understanding-the-political-system/guinness-brilliant.gif)

<a name="of-governments-and-video-game-design" />

# &#x265E; [Of Governments and Video Game Design](#of-governments-and-video-game-design)

This reminds me of Blizzard's excellent game design. Yes, Blizzard
games. As in, Warcraft, Diablo and Starcraft. Their games are known
for impeccable balance and for retaining communities of gamers for a
decade or longer. And why?

#### Anticipation of Trends in Strategy and Metagame

Anticipation of strategy and metagame trends is what makes Blizzard
games last for decades. I've noticed that it seems they anticipated
not only the game balance, but the metagame balance and transitions.
They seemed to understand how the strategies would change as they
released minor changes in patches. This means that they did a
ridiculous amount of play-testing for various settings.

I'm giving Blizzard a ton of credit here, but there's a reason their
titles are amoung the most popular in professional gaming. They
anticipated the long-term evolution and *that* is why they were
successful. Instead of nailing down a single "balanced" game
configuraion, they tested Starcraft strategies under different
settings. Through play-testing, they learned which ones would be
dominant as they made minor changes.

#### Nothing is Perfect; Perfection is Anticipation of Imperfection

From here, they understood how to optimally transition from one set of
dominant strategies to another. This allowed Blizzard to slightly tilt
the online game balance. In Starcraft, this means a few strategies
will become favored and others will become tougher bets. That makes
things interesting for different classes of players. Some strategies
may see little to no gameplay, but are suddenly popular after a patch
because slight changes make them practical.

Blizzard understood how to optimally balance Starcraft for games from
two to eight players with three races. That's impressive. Not only
that, but they seem to have play-tested so well they understood the
optimal transition in patches. This means they could phase dominant
strategies in and out.

#### Drive Discussion and Get Players to Invest

This has a ton of difficult-to-predict but valuable effects that
enabled Blizzard to retain gamer loyalty, even over shiny new products
from competitors. It's part of a corporate strategy to grow a loyal
community around their games. Blizzard can tweak the game and drive
trends in pro play. *This* keeps metagame interesting for
professionals. *That* requires gamers to invest time and energy in
keeping up with trends in the gaming world. They have to discuss this
stuff in forums.

That investment? It means that players will feel committed to blizzard
titles. That discussion for metagame? It also drives SEO while
simultaneously fostering a community around their titles. If the
settings were fairly constant and gameplay strategies were stable, the
game would age more quickly and the adaptation would require
discussion.

Well, that's it! No more politics for now... Womp Womp; The End;;

## A Brief Journey Into My Personal Life

Yes, i've made less than 30% of the aggregate income that I should
have over the past few years, mostly to pursue startup ideas. But if
you haven't figured it out yet, just because I haven't had spectacular
success doesn't mean I'm an idiot. The crap I've dealt with from
specific people I worked with (about five people) has been a serious
setback, for which no one has been held accountable.

But that doesn't mean I'm a failure. If you associate success with
riches -- or with the appearance of money! -- then you should reassess
the way you look at people. Being rich is not the same as being
wealthy. I've been through a lot, but I know my shit. I assess
businesses and their strategies all the time. I cannot help it. I read
about founders and their lives. And it is so irritating to have NEVER
had the chance even once to build a product with a team. Not even
once! It's like it's against the law to cofound a company with
me. You'd have to be a moron to pass up an opportunity to found an
music app like [Splice](https://splice.com)!

One reason why I have never had the chance is because I've never had
an opportunity. I can't say I've failed even though I spent almost
five years of my life on this! Because I've never really tried! And
there are negative people who know that I would be successful. The
people around me are not stupid. They know that once I got my first
success, I would fucking multiply that shit. And after I multiplied
it, I would exponentiate it.

I intuitively understand politics and business strategy for parent
companies and their subsidiaries, though I'm sure I have blind
spots. I know what it means to own competitors to dominate market
share. The fact that I barely have two quarters to rub together is
bullshit and everyone in this country knows it. I couldn't buy coffee
the other day because I only had five quarters. I didn't have seven
quarters... And I didn't feel like walking home.

Can I have some first world problems?! Or do I live in Mali? I made
$1,717 in 2015. Yes. Yes, that number has FOUR fucking digits ... So
yes, I feel like I deserve to bitch about it. After May, I worked hard
to not make any money in 2015, just so I could put the lowest number
possible on my tax returns. JUST SO I COULD BITCH ABOUT IT. So I will.

And how is it that I can help so many other people, yet have nothing
myself? What the fuck is that, anyways?

## Be the Leader I Wasn't Allowed to Become

As previously noted in the
[Facets of Greatness](/posts/2016-05-12-facets-of-greatness-intro.html)
series, revealing the extent of your ability to model a specific
domain isn't very wise. Even if you're as good as you think you are,
it still clues your opponents into how you will approach a
problem. And because of that, they can hone their tactics and focus
their energy to what will be effective for you.

Therefore, it's dumb for me to explain all this, isn't it? It's a
[quasi-political post](/posts/2016-07-14-facets-of-greatness-congressional-power-structures.html)
that, to anyone on Capital Hill, might display entry level knowledge
of tactics in politics. It might help my enemies deconstruct my own
strategies and tactics.

#### Hopefully I'm Helping Someone Grow

So why do it? Because there's so many people out there who don't have
this knowledge. That's what the Facets of Greatness series is
about. They stonewalled me.

#### There might as well be a federal law that reads:

> David Conner is not fucking allowed to win; do not allow that
> cheating twerp to win the turd at the bottom of a cereal box; do not
> lend him credence of any kind; do not allow others to develop
> favorable views of him; and constantly affirm accordance with this
> law of the land by publicly chipping away at his credibility.

## So I Learned to Lead Leaders!

#### That was My Genius All Along

But even if I can't win myself, that doesn't mean that I can't fight
the battle through others. This is partly what I've been doing all
along. It's what was so genius, all along. So, through these
[Facets of Greatness](/posts/2016-05-12-facets-of-greatness-intro.html),
I hope to equip others with valuable knowledge to help them push forward
towards change.
