---
title: "If I Had the Chops to Write My Daedalian Magnum Corpus"
categories: "blog"
tags: "philosophy literature"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Dico ergo quia non loquimur de talibus naturaliter possibilibus sed
  miraculose possibilibus quod in uno parvo spacio et loco ut in loco
  grani milii vel sub eius magnitudine Deus posset formare valde magnum
  corpus, scilicet maius quam sit mundus et verum est quod illud corpus
  non esset in illo parvo corpore vel loco circumscriptive et
  commensurabiliter."
---

{:center: style="text-align: center;"}

### &#x2605; [Themes](#themes) &#x2605; [Form](#form) &#x2605; [Plot](#plot) &#x2605; [Characters](#characters) &#x2605; [Style](#plot) &#x2605;
{: center}

I love taking the time to stop and think about literature I read and
movies I've seen and virtual worlds that I've explored. I love
thinking about how profoundly different works have affected me. And it
seems that there's always something else to pick up when I take the
time to reexplore them.

Why was it that these works affected me so much at that point in my
life and how would they have affected me later on?  When I first read
that chapter or saw that scene, what was I thinking? What should I
have noticed and why didn't I notice it? What compelled me to finish
that RPG, but not others? Was the story not as compelling or was the
pace not consistent enough? Why was I so drawn to that character and
how did my own thoughts about him/her change as the character
developed? What was it that drew me in at first and why? If I was to
create my own work, how could I recreate that magical moment?

Over time, your answers to questions like these will change as you
learn more about life.  So if you do not capture your reactions
authentically and as they happen, you're likely to lose touch with
that part of yourself that you embodied at that time.

## What Is Your Message?

Do you ever feel like you're carrying a message that no one else has
heard? Do you feel the weight of that on your shoulders? Do you feel
that if you didn't write something down, that it might be months or
years before you have the same thought? That it might be some time
before anyone else is viewing a subject through that particular
perspective? Perhaps, months, years or maybe never? ... Though,
obviously, not every thing I think of is revolutionary

### What Is Your Story & Why?

Do you feel that your experiences would allow you to craft a message
that's meaningful to people from all walks of life?  How well do you
really know people?  Are there really "types" of people or is each
person their own brilliant, perfect self?  What makes them laugh, cry
or come to understand something they couldn't before?  Better yet,
what if your story allowed someone to understand things that, for the
first time, they had been missing out on some crucial aspect of life?
Or that perhaps everyone has.

### Extrapolating and Intermeshing from Core Ideas

How do you take a core idea and extrapolate it into a novel or script?
I've found that this would be very challenging and the resulting
material would seem stilted around one topic -- it'd feel like a
painting that just encapsulated one idea. Much more artistic is the
painting that provides enough to stimulate exploration of a set of
ideas. It's not so straightforward that the art is ... well, I'd
rather not elaborate on every detail of these things.

The point is, you'll be much more successful if you merge a few
incomplete ideas. For some genres, content of mixed origination glued
together roughly is perfect, as it adds a characteristic style to a
work or a series of collaborations. The imperfections are what will
lead to opportunities for improvement and thus creativity.

I hope to describe how to use elements and methods of this creative
process to facilitate the development of higher-quality, more
meaningful writing in myself, as well as my readers.

### Machinations Beneath The Surface

Most people view things through a common lens because they haven't
dove in to explore their true nature. People who understand the inner
workings or true nature of some tech, some medium, some idea, they see
beyond the surface and into its mechanics. For them, this subject is
marvelously more sophisticated, yet wondrously simple.  It cannot be
rigidly defined and neither can its potential. To them, it is
difficult to state something is or is not possible because they see
multifarious solutions.

It's like peering over a bridge into a river, where some sections are
deep and others are shallow, with rolling rapids and rocks
exposed. But the deeper sections of the river, you can observe the
rocks beneath the waves. Even though you can't see the rocks or the
riverbed directly, you can still infer their presence because of what
you see on the surface. This is how I see reality; the divide between
the physical world and the metaphysical. Some of the metaphysical must
certainly be there, even though I can't directly observe it.  In fact,
I may never see it, but I know that it's there.

#### Boulder River

![Boulder River](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/boulder-river.jpg)

I get distracted because my mind is too populated with connections to
random things.  If my mind were a graph and whatever I was looking at
or thinking of were our current node, then on average, I would have
dozens as many edges to others than a normal person. Several factors
contribute to this: I know tons of useless trivia, I tend to examine
various trivial aspects of things and I try to correlate more than the
average person.

And so I tend to pursue a lot of tangents and it's a bit harder to
control where my mind goes, but that's actually a strength.  If I
rigidly focused my mind and ignored all the fleeting thoughts, there
would be many roads never traveled. When I explored these roads, if I
never wrote anything down, I'd never remember anything. And for the
longest time, I didn't.

## A Constructive Writing Process
{: center}

### &#x2605; [Themes](#themes) &#x2605; [Form](#form) &#x2605; [Plot](#plot) &#x2605; [Characters](#characters) &#x2605; [Style](#plot) &#x2605;
{: center}

![Cuneiform Gibberish](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/cuneiform.png)

If I ever felt I had the time to write something meaningful, I imagine
I'd use a kind of constructive process, involving the following:
themes, style, characters, relationships, plot elements & form.  Keep
in mind that I'm keeping this focused on literature and that I also
have mostly no idea what I'm talking about.  Here, I'll describe each
type of constructive element and later, I'll enumerate over some
specific themes that interest me personally.

<a name="themes"/>

# &#x2605; Themes &#x2605;
{: center}

Of all the elements, the most important by far is theme.  This is
going to drive the internal dialogue of your readers and hopefully any
external discussion they have as well.  After all, art is much less so
what it is in itself and more so the sum of what it inspires in us.
There is no such thing as a "finished" work of art.  And thus, works
that doesn't drive a dialogue, works that don't make us ask new
questions or provide a new light with which to revisit old modes of
thinking, these works just don't have as much depth.  They are flat.
### Timeless and Universal Themes

And for writing, the themes you choose and how you work with them,
this determines the depth of your work.  Some themes are more relevant
to some than others.  Some are played out, but might be fresh if you
provide a new lens.  There are many which seem relevant now, but whose
importance will soon fade.  These stories will likely vanish from the
pages of time.

Thus, it's important to choose timeless and universally relevant
themes that everyone can value or appreciate. But what is universally
relevant and what is timeless?  As modern civilization continues to
progress towards the unknown at an exponential rate, it seems that
less and less would be timeless.  Or maybe some works will acquire an
air of timelessness as examples of the rapid development through the
21st century.  Perhaps novelty is better preserved with exponential
development.

A list of themes I would like to explore will be enumerated in part
two.

#### Illustration from the 12th Century [Eadwine Psalter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eadwine_Psalter)

![Eadwine Psalter](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/eadwine-psalter.jpg)

<a name="form"/>

# &#x2605; Form &#x2605;
{: center}

What's the overall form of the plot?  This is a major dependency of
all the elements. That is, changing the form will necessitate
reworking many aspects of everything else.

Your story isn't just the collection of facts from the plot. It's so
much more than that. It's a journey that your readers will embark on
and no reader will ever set out on the same journey. Readers will form
very different interpretations of your work and you'll find many
readers whose reactions to elements of your work will cluster
together.  As the artist, it's your task to understand how those
various clusters will form and why. In other words, in what different
ways will people react to the same scene or character and why?

Choosing the appropriate form can either make or break a work.  The
form is the story, as the reader or viewer experiences it.  This needs
to be well thought out and strategically applied to your work.  By
structuring the form of your work, you can magnify the reader's
emotional responses to some elements.  Done well enough and you'll
find consumers want to re-experience your work, which is a far more
accurate measure of validation and valuation than the score on their
review, if they write one.

### Setting and Breaking Expectations

Some plot elements can have a much more dramatic effect if some of the
ending is revealed up to the reader up front -- think Star Wars. This
totally changes how a reader will experience your story.  Instead of
looking forward into the complete unknown, your reader knows the
ending, or at least parts of it. There are these waypoints that must
be connected sometime in the future. Having these kinds of waypoints
will cause someone to be more invested in your story because their
mind is going to constantly reevaluate how the stories current
elements must connect to some events in the future.

### Connecting the Dots

And so, their mind is always trying to connect the dots. This is just
generally true with the human mind: it speciallizes in this.  So give
it some far off points to extrapolate to and it will kick our mind
into high gear.  In particular, it will engage the reader or the
viewer's imagination.  And this is much more interesting to our
subconscious mind, since it reconstructing the path from our current
place in the plot to the future is a problem that is at least
partially resolvable.  That is, as opposed to just iteratively
appending more plot details onto the existing storyline. There's not
much work there for the subconscious mind.

Also, there are more advanced examples of form used in the Star Wars
trilogy, which is a ringed plot. It's a trilogy of trilogies, began
in the middle of a ringed story. The "ringed" form is well known in
literature and Star Wars is like a meta-form of that.

### Sequels Break Coherence to Form

Why is that that sequels don't usually stand up to the first works?
Often, it's because the author didn't have another direction planned
for the work. The stories for the sequels feel "tacked on." They seem
isolated or self-contained or, worse, stilted in how they are
interwoven into the original work. They might intertwine with the
previous work well, but the previous work lacks the ability to
intertwine as well with the sequel, depending on how the author left
openings for sequels.

At the same time, it can sometimes be cheesy when there's a bit
written into the story and I immediately think "oh, I see, that's
where they want to make this a trilogy." But that's better than
tacking on a self-contained sequel. Either way, the premise of
subsequent work has changed the work itself.  How does one construct a
story without planning on the sequel? Sometimes, it's best to travel
hundreds of years in the past and explore some stories from a little
known part of the mythology for the original work.

Another better way, which embodies a kind of formlessness, is to
construct a story, adding in enough extraneous, unresolved material to
leave openings for connected works.  Done in the right way, this is a
technique that can add to the complexity of the original work and the
work should feel both homogenous and heterogenous. Think of one of
those automatic, contextual photoshop brushes.  How does it work? It
checks the surrounding area and fills in the pixes so nothing stands
out too much. This technique is a bit similar. And when you mixin
enough extraneous heterogenous detail into your story, it feels
natural. And when that's not there, it feels constricted, just
barebones plot.

Sequels can change the meaning of the first work. It'd be hard for
*Star Wars Episode VII* to have quite the same effect as on someone
who waited nearly thirty years from the release of *Episode VI*. I'm
not at all saying there's anything wrong with how JJ Abrams approached
the sequels, but it's impossible for that work to have the same effect
as it did on people who grew up with the first six episodes.

Sometimes it's best to leave the reader or viewer seething with
unresolved tension. Other times, a story should begin and end. And
that's it. You've explored the world. Time for a new story. This is
something I really like about anime and manga and I've written a post
about it before in
[Lean, Kanban and Anime](/posts/2015-01-27-lean-kanban-and-anime.html).
There are the franchises that return again and again, but there are so
many one off stories that last just a season or two.  This gives the
storytellers the chance to explore a set of characters and develop
them without abandon. If a show is going to be short, significant
characters can die or whatever. There's less risk there and because of
that, the stories can have more varied developments.

### Formlessness

[No Longer Human](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/No_Longer_Human)(1948)
by Osamu Dazai is an excellent example of formlessness. I haven't read
it, but I've seen the anime based on it, which is part of
[Aoi Bungaku](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aoi_Bungaku), a collection
of japanese literature adapted to anime. It's presumed to be partly
based on the life of Osamu Dazai, who committed suicide shortly after
publishing it. The anime follows the life of Oba Yozo after a
disastrously failed double suicide attempt and delves into his
childhood and his recovery from the failed suicide.

As for themes, it speaks powerfully about the role of the individual
in relation to society. There are several brilliant role reversals
woven into the work, especially towards the end, which are only made
possible by the form of the novel. It's difficult to see these coming,
but they are pulled off just right and add a ton of depth to the
characters in the story. Two of the characters are so similar, yet so
distinctive.  Neither really fits into society and both are kind of
outcasts, but one is able to reconcile this, while the other makes a
few majestic steps forward and several equally tragic falls backward.

Only having experienced the anime, I think the story seems formless
because it's partly based on the life of the author and thus,
traditional form is right out the window. Usually, stories adapted
from real events end up being shallow and one-sided. But here,
elements of form are woven in on top of the pieces of the author's
life story, resulting in a very complex story about life with very
real characters. The end of the anime feels almost like the climax of
a chess game, where there are several pieces holding others in place
and everything suddenly unfolds, leaving almost nothing remaining.

#### No Longer Human Manga

![No Longer Human Manga](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/no-longer-human-manga.jpg)

<a name="plot"/>

# &#x2605; Plot &#x2605;
{: center}

As you decide on major and minor themes, you should begin thinking of
major and minor plot elements that would help you expose them.

### The Intersection of Form and Plot

It's the intersection of form and plot that allows for plausible
alternate explanations to a storyline.  Again, this is a priceless
tool for getting your reader to engage and invest in your story. It's
going to cause them to reevaluate the characters, again and
again. Placing your characters in situations where the character
misunderstands them and makes mistakes and getting the reader to
misevaluate the storyline: that is powerful storytelling that can
cause the reader to reevaluate what they know of their own reality, as
well as your fantasy. It's especially important to look for form and
plot that allow for plausible alternate explanations.  So writers need
to be capable of identifying duplicitous scenarious or portraying
scenarious in such a way that allows for duplicitous explanations.

### Tropes

There are generic kinds of events and events that are genericizeable
which can allow a writer to enumerate reusable scenarios for minor
plot events.  And major plot twists as well.  These are like tropes
and using the same ones over and over can be a bit annoying. Yet, some
tropes are incredibly useful for exploring specific themes, like
betrayal.  You might even say that a particular trope would be
required for exploring some themes.  In order to explore epic
betrayal, you need a character that betrays another in an epic way.
And to explore that to the full effect, you need minor events in your
story that establish a trusting relationship between the two.

Category theory is great for kind of genericizing plot events or
stories from real life. You can take some memories or stories you've
heard and just abstract the characters or combinate & reapply the same
"type" of scenario with different characters until you find something
interesting. But being able to identify those kinds of compelling
events and types of events from real life and from other stories is
the skill here. What types of events would be most interesting when
applied to different characters and situations.

### AI-driven Literature

In terms of getting an AI algorithm to write literature or movies, one
challenge is managing the interweaved web of dependencies between
major/minor plot scenarios. And the big challenge is to get an
algortihm to weave those events together for some higher purpose that
allows the work to inspire in its readers a discussion about life
itself.

There has been a ton of work put into this. AI has been trained on
academic papers, political speeches and screenplays. AI even wrote
this screenplay
[Sunscreen](http://arstechnica.com/the-multiverse/2016/06/an-ai-wrote-this-movie-and-its-strangely-moving/),
which was produced and completed. There's still a lot of work to be
done. N-gram models are way too simple. Sequence-to-sequence is used
in a lot of work with language, but that's still not going to cut
it.

> For the next paragraph, just think: "Watson" retired from IBM and
> kicking our ass at jeopardy to write novels. And his memoirs. That's
> basically all I'm saying.

Any neural network that doesn't actually process the semantics in the
language of the text into a model based on information and knowledge
isn't going to be able to do much. Most AI algorithms that process
text and language rely on the frequency of words, but don't venture
too far into semantics. And what I'm thinking about is a network that
takes the facts and information and plot movement contained in the
semantics and then constructs a neural network based on that. It then
mulls over clusters of higher-order data and produces something novel
... which is punny if you think about it.

The best use for AI in writing for now is for the exploratory process:
it'd be great at combinating through scenarios for characters,
chaining them together and then passing control to screenwriters or
focus groups or something. These higher-order events can be abstracted
from the kind of knowledge and information that Watson
aggregates. These higher-order events can be linked together.  Just
visualized one of those massive old-school synthesizers, with all the
patch cords chaining various modules together.

#### Ergo Proxy

![Ergo Proxy](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/ergo-proxy.jpg)

<a name="characters"/>

# &#x2605; Characters & Relationships &#x2605;
{: center}

Behind themes, your characters, their relationships and the
development of both might be the most important parts. They will help
you elucidate your themes. IMO, ideating all of this is some the
hardest part of the creative process for literature and screenplays,
besides the hard work of writing and editing a book or screen
play. It's all so ephemeral. It can shift so easily. What if you think
you have a good story, but you get a few months into thinking it out
... and it just doesn't work?

[reword this vvvv]

Your main characters are going to have to be well thought out.  I feel
like I don't have nearly enough experience here, but your characters
must feel real in your mind.  Almost like an actor, you must be able
to simulate their personality in your mind.  What would they do?  How
would they dress?  How does their appearance affect their behavior?
Their position in their society and their personality, how does that
contrast with the social norms of various strata?  Why?  Why is that
important to painting the picture of your world?  What is it that is
going to resonate with readers and viewers?  Why?  What would make
your readers and viewers want to cosplay this character? What is going
to be controversial and are those controversial elements relateable?

Some characters, you will need to create as you need them for just one
or two scenes, but that doesn't mean they're not worth investing
energy into. Sometimes these characters are the best because you don't
have to worry about maintaining them and so you can contort their
personality and traits a bit more for a bit of literary chiaroscuro.

What makes your characters real? What traits, mores and values do your
fantasy realm's people share that must be universal, with even our own
world? And for every one of these questions: ask why!  No, ask
[Five Why's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/5_Whys)! By the way, Five
Why's is basically the application of pullbacks, which I'll cover in
just a second. The apparel that your character wears, what is its
purpose to their world?  Does form fit the function? Or is it just
extraneous baggage? What hero wants to dress up every day with with
crap that is mere baggage?  Maybe there's a story behind that ring or
that leather piece? Who knows.

![Ergo Proxy Re-l Mayer](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/ergo-proxy-awakening.png)

What is this character's comfort zone? And what happens when they get
harshly placed outside it? Do they react realistically? Do they
change? What provokes their change? Or does the character, a high
class princess that's never seen a fleck of dirt, just magically adapt
to circumstances she couldn't psychologically tolerate? Because that
wouldn't be "realistic" which is a pretty fun term to toss around when
referring to fantasy realms. Yet, you want to construct this realm in
the mind of your viewer, so you want all the details to be coherent.
You want them to construct this world in their mind because they want
to escape our common reality, which is quite boring. So you owe it to
them to flesh it out. On the other hand, you need to give yourself
room for flexibility: don't flesh out so many details if it's going to
be a problem to be stuck with them.

### Three-Dimensional Characters

And so, to get "three-dimensional characters," I'll again return to
category theory -- this time to **pullbacks**.  It's more useful to
let the reader construct their version of the character in their head
because if you try to do it for them, it's going to feel forced and
stilted. Try to avoid describing the events and details at the
surface.

So to sculpt these more authentic characters, you find that writers
will mix one of two strategies. Both are necessary, though the first
is much better IMO.  First, they may strategically filter what is
described at the surface and use that to allow you to imagine what
must lie below.  And secondly, they may attempt to directly describe
the thoughts and inner feelings of the characters to articulate how a
reader should perceive the surface details. This is necessary when you
want to make sure that your reader is thinking about certain things
when a scene is unfolding. It's like putting text in bold. Sometimes
you want to do that.

And you have to take the limitations of your medium into account. A
movie only has a running time of 90 - 120 minutes, tops. You need to
change how you develop your characters so you can do it faster, unless
your character is already fairly well known, like a comic book
superhero or something.

### Pullbacks and Character Development

Try to refrain from techniques like expository dialogue, *especially
if you're using it to expose emotional state!* LOL, definitely don't
do that.

So, instead use the category theory concept of
[pullbacks](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pullback_(category_theory)). And
please note, this concept doesn't really map up one-to-one with the
concept with category theory, but I think I can illustrate some
important points about both by illustrating with this analogy. And
yeh, it's abstract non-sense mathematic mumbo jumbo, but I can break
it down. You'll see that it's simple and relevant.

#### Pullback Diagram

![Category Theory Pullback](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/category-theory-pullback.png)

So, `P` and `Z` are your reader's perceptions of the character
`Alice`, before and after some character development. Lets say that
`Z` is your character after some transformative event that makes your
reader think `Alice` is greedy and shortsighted.  To make the analogy
to category theory more clear (this isn't really important) then `P ->
X -> Z` and `P -> Y -> Z` represent the transformations of `greedy`
and `shortsighted`, in either order.  Whether or not you apply the
functions `greedy` or `shortsighted` first or second doesn't matter,
you still reach a place `Z` where the reader perceives both are true
about `Alice`.  But if you just do it this way, it's the equivalent of
writing `The character Alice is greedy and shortsighted`. Boring,
right? But that is the goal. You need the reader to believe that
`Alice` is these things.

So a pullback is a transformation of `P -> X -> Z` and `P -> Y -> Z`
so that you can go from `Q -> X -> Z` or `Q -> Y -> Z`. And there is
the implied existence of a function `u` that transforms `Q -> P`. What
is important is that you have pulled back from the overly simple
statement `The character Alice is greedy and shortsighted` and
obfuscated that with a situation or event that allows the reader to
understand that. These pullbacks are also useful for genericizing
types of events and situations, so that they could be reapplied to
other characters.

And so, these kind of pullbacks are essential to writing literature in
such a way that allows the reader theirself to search for your
meaning.  It makes it a bit harder, so that they spend more time and
energy trying to understand your art.  These kinds of pullbacks also
make your art a bit ambiguous.  It's clear you wanted to spark a
dialogue on `greed` and `myopia`, but now your readers need to discuss
amongst themselves what you actually wanted to say. When truly, you
wanted them to explore these themes or character traits because they
are complex and the reason you thought about them enough to inspire
art in the first place is because there is no "right" answer. Art that
is so direct & obvious doesn't inspire enough discussion and
investment of energy to last.

### Anonimyzed Characters

There is a kind of merger of characters with the mathematic concept of
type theory. Don't freak out! Type theory is basically Mad Libs.
That's all. If you want to get fancy, think Mad Libs with tree-like
data structures.

Type theory sounds overly abstract, but it's applicable
to writing and the creative process. Type theory can be applied to
both the situations you're character will be in as well as to the
characters themselves. It allows you to compare and specify parallels
between the structures of data, in this case characters and events. In
computer science, type theory very useful for functional programming
and if you were to model literature you would find yourself finding a
ton of connections to category theory, as we already have.

For the situations you want to use to highlight your chosen themes,
you're going to need characters to fill various roles. If your
characters are pulling off a heist and one of them gets left behind,
it could be any of them, but why should you pick each one? The role is
the character that needs to be left behind, which is necessary for
some future element of the plot. If your characters pull off a series
of heists, there might be similar features shared between all of them:
specific events or roles for a character to fulfill.

So, if you've enumerated these generic situations and plot movements
that you want to use to construct your plot, then you can also create
anonymized characters to attach to specific situations.  This way, you
can evaluate characters for that role in that situation to find the
best fit.  Changing characters that are part of a scene can have
ramifications on dependencies to the story. E.G. the character that
gets left behind in the heist was originally supposed to be in a scene
just a bit later on, but now that's a plot hole and a dependency issue
to be resolved.

But anonimyzing the characters that are part of your scenes allows you
to be a bit more flexible with your story.  Because the imposition
limitations often sparks creativity, then by evaluating which
characters make the most sense for each scene and resolving the
dependency issues that arise by creating explanatory scenes, you're
actually augmenting your creative capacity. I've always found that
imposed limitations cause me to be much more creative than usual.

And so, if you have these anonimyzed characters, you might specify
some of their actions and reactions in specific scenes, but because
you haven't decided their identity, you can always merge them with
other characters to some extent.  E.G. well for scene A, we need a
heroic character that can rappel onto a balcony to save the day and
that matches up with character B.

### Character Archetypes

Ahhh the tsundere. Who doesn't love a good tsundere? Anime shows often
seem to have one. It's the character, usually a girl, who acts like
she doesn't approve of our unlikely hero. She remains cold and
distant, but why?! And gradually they grow close after the hero proves
himself in some way.

These character archetypes are all over the place. There's the distant
mystic. The thief with a heart of gold. The homeless guy who's seen
everything. The evil stepmom. The unlikely hero. The valiant
prince. The trickster. They're all over literature and it's nearly
impossible to create characters that break these molds. You have to be
familiar with them because you're inevitably going to copy traits from
them whether you know it or not. You can try to combine one or more
archetypes, but that's not such a great approach. A good idea would be
to practice creating characters that embody these archetypes in some
way. If you can master that, then you should know how to create
characters that differ from them in some significant way.

Greek mythology and other ancient traditions are a great source of
stories about characters that seem to best embody these
archetypes. And I wonder: is that because they are the most pure
implementations of these archetypes? Or is it because they were some
of the first and everything is based on them?

### The Icarus Archetype

#### Ergo Proxy's [Monad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monad_(philosophy)) [Proxy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monad)

![The Monad Proxy](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/ergo-proxy-ending.jpg)

<a name="style"/>

# &#x2605; Style &#x2605;
{: center}

Cultures have evolved over time, as have people and the personality
types and metatypes they embody. So has literature; myths have
evolved and so has the way we tell them. Storytellers have found that
one of the best ways to change a story is to change how they present
the narrative to the reader, the listener, the viewer.

New technologies open up new ways of telling old stories.  Higher
bandwidth, instantaneous communication has given us the flat world of
modernization, where everyone and every culture is essentially on the
same playing field.  Or rather, we seem to be eternally moving in that
direction. The total quantity of information that is shared between
the entire world has never been higher and so we have also changed the
way we share information.

Further, this society urges the individual to stand out. So in that
regard, modernization has encouraged writers to be creative in how
they tell stories. The turn of the 20th century gave us stream of
consciousness for example. People were in the middle of the
intellectual and cultural revolution that would pave the way for the
technological and philosophical developments of the 20th century. We
were beginning to understand then mind, body and world like never
before. The variety of writing styles that were put into publication
underscore this and reflect the liberalization of control over
publication.

### Literary Style

So what is literary style? Style seems to mesh together the other
literary elements. Style evolves over time and follows trends. Style
is how a writer chooses to tell a story. Experienced writers will
consciously embed elements of style throughout their work's
creation. They might have developed their own distinctive style, but
they probably wouldn't tell you that. That would limit other people's
scope of perspectives, when looking at their work.

When you apply style to a work, which kind you apply and how much
should seem uniformly embedded in the work, instead of a late idea or
something that requires a ton of edits and reworks. Or it should at
least seem like style that was conscientiously applied and for good
reason. There is a spectrum to the quantity and type of style applied
to a work.  There is a moreso "major" application of a type of style
where that style permeates the work. And there are more "minor"
applications of style, which might be more a result of the period of
time the work was created than a result of the artist's intent.

### ... ?

But the best kind of work: you'll notice something. The style the
writer or director pursued -- maybe it was that author's distinvtive
style or maybe the style embodied their philosophy -- it feeds back
into the work, somehow. Nowhere is this more perfectly executed, I
think, than in Birdman. In this movie, the style of filming is so
perfectly reflected back into the nature of the meaning of the work.

- how do specific techniques of style reinforce the themes or
  characters?
  - is your use of style "major" or "minor"
    - are you focusing on style in some way that drives the other
      elements


Style can detract from your story
- should be aware of how your style will affect your work ahead of
  time. it really shouldn't be something you just throw in
- creative writing

kinds of style
- vocabulary/language
- character development
- novelty
- the degree of clarity in detail
  - or the kinds of perspectives which are shown
- adherence to wordplay and language
- paralellism/connectedness between characters

properly executed style can add entire dimension to the work
- that is, it can add some fundamental level of content worth
  inspecting further
  - often, it does this by creating dissonance between the words and the
    meaning

#### Tarantino - Jackie Brown

- the cohesion between what is shown
- and the conciseness of the material
- tarantino seems to focus the viewer onto just the right aspects of
  the plot and characters
  - (reword bc spoiler)... it's difficult to manage to persist the
    certain

when style is pulled off best,
- it feeds back into the nature of the story or into the
  internal/external dialogue of the viewers
  - it feeds into the plot, the characters, or especially the themes

#### Birdman

birdman - a film where style reflects back into the depth of the work
- this is a spectacular example of the use of style to add depth to
  the work
  - the one-shot view highlights differences between acting and
    theater, in a movie about theater
  - the one-shot style also makes a statement about life/death
    - where you only have one shot
    - and it makes a statement about the high-stakes nature of an
      actor's career
  - the one-shot style makes us question the reality of the ending
    - since there's no break in action, it reinforces the reality of
      his fantasies
  - the film shifts from the mundane life of an actor trying to regain
    control of his career to his surreal dreamlike fantasies
- the one-shot style also means that ... what?? .......

  - the hateful eight
    - how does the choice of film feed back into the work
    - why this choice of film?

#### infinite jest (barely started it)

- a book containing a loosely threaded collection of stories
  - DFW mentions that all the answers exist, but just past the last
    page. (paraphrase from wikipedia) i think

#### the crying of lot 49

(remove)

- looking forward to reading this
  - i enjoy it's style, full of allusions

#### on the road - kerouac

- notes compiled and written in one shot on a bus across the country
- here the style embodies the spirit of the novel

#### kaiser soze

- a mixture of form and style
- an impossibly convoluted, elusive character
  - unresolveable ending
  - the myth of kaiser soze feeds into the story ... how?

#### No Longer Human

No Longer Human is told in the form of notebooks left behind by the
main character.
- why did the author choose this style?

#### Cantebury Tales

- style of a collection of small stories from the same era or series
  of events
- countless works embody this style of form
  - death note anime
  - sin city

#### Gargantua and Pantagruel

- made up words, inspired by ancient greek (need more info)
- tons of wordplay. considered obscene at first, but eventually
  became a staple of french literature
- a particular "scorn for fortuitous things" .... need to expand on
  this

#### Neuromancer

- vivid detail of scenery
  - so much is explored that isn't reused
  - it's almost dreamlike
    - in that imagery arises then fades without consequence to the
      main plot
    - while adding to the atmosphere
  - i always reference this aspect of neuromancer because it stuck out
    to me
    - there was so much revealed about this future culture
      - yet it wasn't enough i was left wanting more

#### Ghost in the Shell

- distinction between frames in japanese manga and american comics
  - pretty much ripping the criticism straight from the video
- but manga explores space in a different way
  - and the original GITS movie reflects that with a series of slow
    moving shots at the beginning
  - helps establish and explore a sprawling urban world of the future

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/gXTnl1FVFBw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### Experimentation with Style

- creative writing to explore style
- exercises? ideas?
  - short stories, etc.

![Gargantua and Pantagruel](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/gargantua-and-pantagruel.jpg)

## Part Two - Specific Themes

In the next part, I'm going to list some specific themes I'd like to
write about.  This

![Chrono Trigger Campfire](/img/posts/2016-06-21-if-i-had-the-chops-to-write-my-daedalian-magnum-corpus/chrono-campfire.jpg)
