---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: Casting Men with Myth"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Obviously, humanity has struggled to define the world for tens of
thousands of years.  Mythology provided an excellent means of
attempting to do so.  Often, detractors will point out that some
elements of a myth have been shown to be impossible.  Yet, I think
these critics miss the point. These myths attempt to explain the what
and how in the world.  Sometimes cracks and faults in these myths can
can be found.

## Casting Men with Myth

Yet far more important, especially for our ancient ancestors
struggling to survive, myth encoded information vital to that
struggle. Even today, myth, whether it is religious or not, encodes
vital lessons in these fables.  Whether or not you take them to be
fact, there is value there and to totally disregard that value on the
basis of factuality is lunacy.  It's a bad argument to make with
religion, since to be effective it needs to be taken as truth,
especially by those who are too young to understand this value.

### Our Irreplaceable Golden Dies

There is irrefutable value to myth and religion. You simply cannot
deny that a good story can be formative in how our youth construct
their lens and perspective. Myth and religion are like dies from which
our children's minds are cast.

- more on this analogy

To disempower religion and its institutions is not simply
negligence. It is an assault on the resilience of social fabric
supporting individuals, families and communities. It degrades the
tools and social networks that support people through the world. And
yes, these institutions and belief systems are vulnerable to abuse.
No, its institutions are not perfect, but neither could be anything
created by man. But their propensity for benefit is immeasureable.

- atheism for policy, etc.

To deny it on a personal level, ... but systematically ... blah blah
blah

atheism as an inverson of religion

It's horrifying to see a concerted effort to discredit religion and
its institutions over the course of several generations.  This is an
effort to disempower the common man by robbing him of the collective
knowledge and wisdom accumulated over generations. By studying and
adhering to a belief system and code of ethics established by
religion, one augments is ability to build a resilient livelihood. In
anticipation of an unprecedented storm, the man, woman or family who
built the strongest house can rest assured that his/her family will
sleep at night.

- irrefutable value of myth/religion

- while i admit it's wise to base belief systems on demonstrable facts
  - when the basis for such truths constantly shifts, as it does with science
  - this is actually no basis at all
  - if the basis for truth constantly shifts around based on our
    currrent level of knowledge, the cultural resilience derived from
    extrapolating from that foundation is lost

- I want to make it clear that it's not my intention to cast judgement
  on atheists. that's your belief system.
  - however, i feel like religion is really vulnerable at this moment
    in history
    - even though it has tremendous value towards accumulating wisdom
      through history to guide the actions of future generations
    - and yet, the major world religions are losing their power and
      influence to science, which seems much more capable of
      demonstrating truth and mastery over the world
      - however, IMO, religion equips you with the wisdom of dozens of
        generations -- and yet, it's outright rejected by most
        atheists
    - and yet, it is as if atheists totally disregard the power of the
      human mind and both individual and cultural beliefs
      - if you chose atheism or rejected religion based on your
        intelligence, how could you possibly not understand the power
        of the human mind?

- so no, it's not atheism or atheists that I have a problem with,
  - what irriates me is when atheists assault religion in an
  evangelical way
    - especially when



I believe atheism is misguided.  IMO, athiests say there's no
room for God because it has been shown or can be shown that there is
no God. The facts do not permit it. That is often the basis of their
religion of rejection of religion. In my opinion, that is so
incredibly arrogant.  How can anyone say that they have personally
looked for God under every rock and sifted through all the sand on
every beach and found nothing?  If you say that you have looked and
found nothing, I would say that you haven't looked at all.

Look around, breath in, real deep ... hold it ... hold it, push down
with your diaphram ... and now let go.  Did you not just feel the
benefits of an atmosphere that just so happened to be perfect for
life? Life is so amazingly complex that I cannot imagine a universe
just randomly assembled by chance. It might not by an old dude in a
robe, sitting on a cloud in sandals, but to say that you can dismiss
any possibility of God is incredibly arrogant.  To me, the more I
look, the more I learn, the more I confirm the existence of God.

IMO, life evolves through a stochastic process of innumerable events
to reflect harmony with and self-similarity to certain intangible
metaphysical forms and entities. In other words, we were made to
reflect God's image. So, no, you might not be able to see that, but
you said you had looked everywhere, right? Which part of the beauty of
this world did you miss? Did you take a look at that sapphiric jewel
floating in the massive expanse of ether? Did you stop to think that
the only reason we can begin to fathom the infinite, magnificent
expanse of our universe is because the universe began to reflect
intangible metaphysical artifacts that imbued star dust with the
potential to become self-aware.  Over the course of billions of years,
the universe evoked forms through which it could wonder in awe of it's
own beauty.

Anyways, I think it's a bit myopic to view zero possibility and zero
value in religion. Other atheists make the argument that there is no
value and that religion has damaged humanity by fueling conflict over
millenia. Those people at least acknowledge the power of the belief
systems established by religion, but apparently completely missed all
the good that it has accomplished. IMO, humanity is neither inherently
good or evil. But the conflict you're referencing is the product of
humanity, not a particular religion.

And what should we replace such religions with?  What happens in
countries which force atheism? What do they replace it with?
State-worship and cult-of-personality, which is essentially a
religion.  They simply disempower any belief systems which might
provide competition, then create their own. So, is that a better
world, where a man can declare himself king and god in order to more
efficiently rule his country? By creating whatever rules he sees fit
to project through state-worship? I'd prefer a world that worships an
imaginary flying spaghetti monster, if such a being simply and clearly
enumerated a list of rules that remained constant for millenia.

### There Is No Man Above Him

That is one of the aspects that I admire about Christianity.  Jesus
declares himself to be "King of kings and Lord of lords." And this
means there is no person on earth, whether a pauper or emperor, who
could challenge the authority of what is written in the New
Testament. That for over two millenia, even the most powerful rulers
would be bound to adhere to such a clearly stated set of rules. Ethics
and laws which could never change on the whim of a tyrant.  And which
could be used to hold such tyrants accountable for transgressions
against a set of laws which no man could question.

Furthermore, the only reason Western Civilization arrived to any kind
of modern age was through unity behind the establishment of such
beliefs. Through the chaos of medieval Europe, would it have been
possible to promulgate any such belief system capable of generating
the stability required for the Renaissance and the Enlightenment? Just
look at the geography of Europe. We have been fighting an uphill
battle since the incursions of Darius I and Xerxes I.

Geography and resource distribution have determined conflict since far
before the emergence of religion. These two factors have cursed and
blessed cultures around the world and continue to drive world
conflict. Throughout history, Empires rose and fell based on the
locations of valuable resources, along with the maintainence and
defense of the trade routes that emerged and shifted.  So, actually,
economics and bad luck have encouraged conflict to a much greater
extent than religion.

And hopefully, we soon reach a place in history where it's possible to
move beyond war. I hope we find a place where our childrend and
grandchildren don't know what war is. Yet, that's also a very
dangerous place to be, isn't it? When a nation or generation is
completely unfamiliar with the consequences and tactics of war, for
which there truly are no rules, how can they cope? When they've become
detached from the motivation to remain strong, where does that leave
them if conflict emerged?

As for war, I hope that we continue to wage our conflicts that
redirect tensions to be expressed through economic
competition. Conflicts between nations should be determined by how
hard their citizens can work and by how much a nation can help raise
the developing world.  We should utilize game theory to encourage
cooperation of influential nations to, instead of resorting to
competition by armed conflict, redirect our energy into stemming
third-world injustice and raising those nations to be
self-sufficient.

On the other hand, it is improvident, expensive and dangerous to
empower those who harbor dangerous sentiment towards a nation who is
trying to help. And while plenty of nations judge the United States
for interfering and causing conflict out of self-interest, that
couldn't be further from the truth. What do other nations do around
the world? China is helping to develop various areas in Africa. And
there are countless other examples. But to think that the world is
going to get any better by ignoring injustice is ignorant.  And to
bash America for it's incredibly expensive history of doing so makes
me irate, honestly.

What does this have to do with religion? Basically, an army of
facebook atheists and bots embroiling believers into fruitless
arguments over religion is not only wasteful and insensible, it slowly
chips away at foundational aspects of our culture. These aspects help
to establish, declare and propagate shared values systems in the
diverse culture of America. By slowly eating away at this foundation,
especially in the younger generation, this makes us weaker because
atheists don't seek to replace the belief systems they disrupt with
anything else that fulfills the roles provided by religions. And don't
get me wrong: I don't mean to dictate to atheists what they should or
should not believe. Yet, it seems obvious to me that atheists
disregard the value provided on religion, based on fallacious,
emotional or myopic arguments ... some of the exact same points they
use to deride about religion.

### The Facts Say Religion Is Not True

Science is constantly changing: what is true today may not be
tomorrow.  So where is your truth? And did you bother looking closely
enough at religious text to actually examine everything that could be
asserted as true or false?  Or did you gloss over the surface and
decide that one fact didn't fit with your worldview, therefore it must
all be false?

### Religion Seeds Conflict

Just covered this one earlier. While it can be shown that, yes, many
conflicts have been driven by religion, weakening the
value-propagating function of religion in society, without replacing
it with anything, leads to demoralization and disrupts the viability
of widely-shared value systems.

### Religious People Are Judgemental

By insulting the right of adherents to choose their own way in life,
especially with this argument, you're also insulting the sacrifices
they make to adhere to such a way of life. By practicing religion and
remaining faithful to it, someone is restricting their actions by
adopting a moral code. And people who refrain from, in particular,
pleasurable activities their religion declares immoral, have every
right to be proud of the life they lead. And there are reasons behind
the rules they follow. It takes a lot of effort to do so and they have
every right to it.

### Religion Leads to Bad Policy

So does bad science. IMO, science itself should be considered a
religion because the belief systems extrapolated from current
understanding are formative in the belief systems of the acolytes of
science.

### Religious Beliefs Are Outdated

By definition, the Scientific Method that requires
that science constantly challenge itself to progress, implies that
science is constantly in flux.  So, not only does it create belief
structures, just like a religion, it's constantly in cyclic flux,
invalidating itself and the belief systems of it's followers. Yet, it
doesn't necessarily propagate the new beliefs to those followers.
This sows a sense of distrust between generations.

### Relgious Beliefs Are Vulnerable to Exploitation

More to the point, this flux creates an opportunity for
exploitation. Whoever funds the science exerts control of the
flux from one paradigm to the next.  The control resides with the few
with the resources to do so.  And the vulnerability for exploitation
is powerful, as the decisions of lawmakers are often based on the
current extent of mainstream scientific knowledge, with the best
intentions in mind. IMO, I'd rather have policy decisions based on
something unchanging, like humanist values. At the same time, I don't
think it's a good idea for people to entirely base public policy on

### Arguments Not Based On Propositional Logic

Ok, this is fair, but it's also my personal favorite. I somehow got in
an argument with someone on Facebook about atheism, where he was
berating me for arguing that religion has value, regardless of its
scientific provability. Ok, the argument was heated and we were both
berating each other. I made most of the counter arguments above, but
he asserted that I knew nothing of propositional logic. Again, this
was fair because my argument didn't actually hold under propositional
logic. I acknowledged this and he immediately incurred an aneurism.  I
then introduced category theory and higher-order logic, which he knew
nothing about. He then countered by blocking me on Facebook. I think
it's because I won.

## Part Two

### Indispensible Foundations to Mercurial Cultural Shift


## Part Two

- tectonic
- mercurial
- errata

### ... ?

any more

policies
which strengthen our economies.  War is too disastrous in the 21st
century.  There are so many problems on which the the entire globe
must cooperate or we cannot hope to resolve.

had a list
of rules that were clearly enumerated and did not change for millenia.

. It is incredibly ignorant to say
to that there is not

Atheism as a basis for laws can be good
- but also it can be misguided

My own beliefs? To gloss over a few:

**split into part two**

## My Beliefs?

I'll just gloss over a few of these

Just wanted to summarize over those, although that list is by no means
complete. And please let me emphacize: I in no way intend or intended
to create something that other people would follow. Dear God, no. That
would be irresponsible. I simply wanted to understand as much about
the world as I could, including world religions, though I'm
embarrassed to say I'm a complete novice.

And I'm ashamed to associate with any religion at this point,
honestly. I couldn't hope to touch something pure without getting it
dirty, whether it's Buddhism or Christianity or whatever. And while I
clearly see the value of religion and hold it's waning influence
partially responsible for many of the problems we have in the world
today, I find it difficult to defend because I haven't strongly
embraced any religion.  I can't exactly use my interpretation of bible
verses as rhetorical defense because who am I to interpret something
like that, if I don't claim strong personal belief.


gnostic/theosophist influence:

### The Golden Rule

We should act as though we are all one and that to harm another is to
harm oneself. IMO, the 10 Commandments and Noahide laws are rules that
someone who truly respects another would not break.  Not because they
are clearly stated rules, but because someone who equinanimously
informs their action with empathy and awareness just wouldn't break
those rules.

- acting as though you literally are the other person
  - if we are all one, then this is true

- this is really the most important aspect
  - almost everything else could be dropped or redefined
  - also, one has to decide on:
    - relative or absolute morality
    - relativism and/or utilitarianism vs. pragmatic expression of
      philosophy
    - each has their dangers

### The Unknown

There is this mystical, ineffable force that pervades every fragment
of the universe.  It is powerful and we cannot ever hope to fully
understand it, but it's far from fruitless to try. This is the basis
for the connection between all of us, our karma, and the direction of
our individual fates.

### The Intangible

The intangible is as real as the tangible. The beliefs of others are
as real as the chair I'm sitting in. The intangible extends to
metaphysical concepts beyond those based on information processed by
conscious, physical beings. There is consciousness everywhere;
everything is connected. And there are intangible metaphysical affects
pervading space and time.  Some of these will never change -- it could
be argued that any which are not perminant can be totally & summarily
defined in terms of those that are permanent. Math is such a
universal, metaphysical object, which cannot ever change by its nature
and from which all other things can be defined.  Therefore, they are
timeless. Our exigent fates are defined in terms of the intangible and
nothing can escape it's reach.

### Timelessness

In addition to the Golden Rule, we need to think outside our current
time and place.  This means considering how people lived in the past,
as well as how they could live in the future. We should think of our
possible future selves as already existing and act accordingly.

    - simulate ancient models of thought
      - think hard about problems without cheating by applying today's knowledge/technology
      - how would aristotle have reached these conclusions?
      - could the ancient greeks known this and if so, how did they
        reach those conclusions?

### Emphacizing Potential Over Faults

- seeing the best in other people
  - being realistic, but treating them as though your seeing the best
    version of themselves that their idealized version of you would
    also see.
    - there's a Rick and Morty episode about this lol

  - accessing your future self and tapping into your genius
    - throwing the concept of timelessness in...

  - cultivating virtues and leadership in yourself and others

- of course, it's important to be realistic here.

### Light and Dark, Good and Evil

### Everything Has a Purpose

### Compassion & Empathy

### Self-Sacrifice

### The Relative and the Absolute

### Independence

We are best when we have as much power over our fate and circumstance
as possible. One should take great care if interfering in the life of
another.

### Self-Knowledge

We should know ourselves and our world. We can't know ourselves
without learning about the world and we can't fully understand the
world without knowing about ourselves.  Meditation, retreat into
nature, and education are great ways to learn about ourselves.

### Karma

Our actions matter, even when they are not seen. There is karma formed
from the beliefs of others, which is usually a response to your own
actions and beliefs. I also believe in universal karma, which is
outside our control or understanding.

### Devine Connection

We each have a connection to the divine. This is a concept from
gnosticism. Whether this connection is viewed
as ordinary or supernatural, I believe it is there and that some are
more in tune than others. It's something we can exercise through
reflection and medititation. And it is something that can be
suppressed by others.

### Every World Religion Offers Valuable Wisdom

Whether or not you believe the words of a religious text, there is
value there. I would like to know as much as I can about the major
world religions. Though I can't say one is better than another and
each is fairly comprehensive, we would be well served through their
study. At the least, we learn about what other people believe.

### Judgement & Forgiveness


### Providing Purpose



### Understanding Our Personal Circumstances

We are born without any understanding of our world.  We should develop
understanding of our circumstances before deciding they should be
changed or pursuing action. It's a bit ironic that I'd feel strongly
about this, since in my college years, I expended a ton of energy
pushing as hard as I could for just that. Yet, perhaps that's exactly
what qualifies my feelings: I worked hard to change things I didn't
completely understand and misappropriated time & energy doing so.  I
would have been much better served had I reflected on my conditions
and learned a lot more about the world before taking action.

### Understanding Our Environment

Also, a similar concept applies to man's relationship with nature. Or
rather, this concept specifies how we relate to the world, globally,
instead of our personal situations. Both in how the individual relates
to the world and how humanity relates to the world.

I believe man should prove itself capable of maintaining nature as is
before attempting to alter it. We have caused so much change to nature
with science before developing tools capable of accurately measuring
it's state. The feedback loops that preserve balance are robust, but
delicate. If enough of them are altered or removed, the consequences
will be irreparably expensive, far outweighing any benefit from
cutting corners. Rather, we're just hoarding the profits for ourselves
and pushing the costs to another generation.

We have to encourage global cooperation towards this goal, while
accepting the risk that comes with being the first to act, as such
policies imply impaired capacity for competition.  The greatest
challenge is to balance the interests of nature and mankind with
global economic pressures and game theory -- we basically have to
convince industry leaders around the world that they should curtail
their profits, while leaving themselves open for other nations to
capitalize on the opportunity -- so I completely understand how we got
to this situation, but I don't understand why we let those factors
persist.  Actually, there are massive profits for those innovators who
develop solutions to help clean up what has been damaged. And it looks
like there was great progress towards this at Paris.

### Axiomatic Waypoints

Technology is rapidly changing our life and culture.  In this
turbulent period, what can we know to be unequivocally constant? What
can we identify and use as fixed reference points if the basis for our
culture and social structures is constantly shifting beneath our
feet.

This is one reason why religion will be relevant through these next
few decades.  The philosophical and ideological conclusions one
reaches by extrapolating scientific advancements remain in pace with
the rate of advancement.  The transition to the post-Singularity epoch
will necessitate constant and chaotic re-evaluation.  Yet, religion,
especially those with long-established tradition, remains constant,
regardless of how life changes around us.  So it is useful and, again,
atheism is short-sighted.

### Asymptotic Evaluation

This is more of a tool I use to evaluate new ideas in the concept of
trends, regardless of whether it's a past, present and
future. Basically, I ask myself, what happens if I take that to
infinity? Or zero?

Examples: what if there was no cost or energy required
for communication? Or what if the maximum theoretical energy density
for batteries changes dramatically? What's the realistic range to
expect that maximum to change to?  What if all information was
available everywhere?  Or what would it be like if we approached a
world where information was instantly available everywhere?  What if
the speed of light was not a limitation?

So this "asymptotic evaluation" is a tool that I use to augment my
powers as a futurist. But developing a better understanding of what
this transitionary period will be like is vital if we survive the next
filter in Fermi's Paradox.

### Moving the Lampposts

Another tool that I use to examine problems. Science is constantly
developing better tools to measure phenomena. One of the best
examples is X-Ray crystallography, for which like 50 Nobel Prizes have
been awarded.  If it weren't for this one technique, steampunk would
still be in-vogue and not because it's some kind of chic, hipster
style.

So
[moving the lamposts](http://movingthelamppost.com/blog/html/index.html)
isn't exactly my idea or expression, but I seem to be fairly
proficient with it.  Basically, if we're having a hard time seeing
where we are, what if we had a better, brighter flashlight? If we had
an innovative means of measuring some phenomenon, wouldn't we make new
advancements at what would seem to be warp speed?

- moving the lampposts

gnosticism:
- and the authorship of those works are hotly debated. Many
- if not most are probably fallacious, but it's


- quasi-religious ideals
  - cultivating your connection with God
    - whatever you may believe to be god
  - living your life as though it was a movie and you're the hero
    - what's your story?
    - this mindset could go horribly wrong, so how to limit it?
      - e.g. someone has the wrong view of reality, does something horrible
      - or someone decides to be the villain
  - thinking outside the box by lifting arbitrary constraints and taking concepts to their limits

- as we hurtle towards relative omniscience and relative omnipotenc
  - isn't it important for us to discuss what makes a group worthy of ...
    - ... "handling this power?" i think that's what i meant to write
