---
title: "Fallout Zero: Surviving OPM, Sepsis, and the Neo-Bolshevik Metamorphosis"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "communism politics economics gaslighting torture gangstalking"
categories: blog
headline: "They out there fuckin Lady Liberty down by the harbor and everyone can hear her scream!"
excerpt: "
That's right, they out there fuckin' Lady Libery down by the harbor
and everyone in Manhattan can hear that bitch screaming, but because
she's got a bag on her head, she don't know it! She might be
asphixating from the gag in her throat, it's OK. It's OK folks. She
probably likes it. Lady Liberty's turnin blue in the face and
somebody's running a train on her and everyone knows it, but ... it's
OK?
"
---

What's going on in America right now? I have no idea, but it's the
nonchalance that scares me the most. This post rambles from place to
place, but that's what makes it worth it. Oh, but wait, there's more
coming...

# [America's In A Cultural Crisis](#americas-in-a-cultural-crisis)

### &#x2605; [What Is Socialism Without An Economy?](#what-is-socialism-without-an-economy)

# [What is a Bolo, Trebek!](#what-is-a-bolo-trebek)

### &#x2605; [We Weren't Intended To Have an Opportunity To React](#we-werent-intended-to-have-an-opportunity-to-react)

### &#x2605; [It's a Cockfight, But...](its-a-cockfight)

### &#x2605; [Which Chicken Would You Bet On](#which-chicken-would-you-bet-on)

### &#x2605; [What Overton Window?](#what-overton-window)

### &#x2605; [Fallout Zero: A Reality Show from Bethesda](#fallout-zero-a-reality-show-from-bethesda)

# [America has FOSO](#america-has-foso)

### &#x2605; [Fear of Speaking Out](#fear-of-speaking-out)

# [How Do We Fix This?](#how-do-we-fix-this)

### &#x2605; [Stand Up For Your Rights!](#stand-up-for-your-rights)

### &#x2605; [Beware the Weaponized Self-Interest of Others](#beware-the-weaponized-self-interest-of-others)

### &#x2605; [Study the Situation in East Germany](#study-the-situation-in-east-germany)

### &#x2605; [Above All Else, The American Economy](#above-all-else-the-american-economy)

### &#x2605; [Intellectual Property is the Key](#intellectual-property-is-the-key)

### &#x2605; [Stand Up for International Cooperation and Rule of Law](#stand-up-for-international-cooperation-and-rule-of-law)

### &#x2605; [External Interests Never Accurately Represent Internal Interests](#external-interests-never-accurately-represent-internal-interests)

### &#x2605; [If You Knowingly Aid the Enemy Right Now, You Are A Traitor](#if-you-knowingly-aid-the-enemy-right-now-you-are-a-traitor)

### &#x2605; [Americans' Declawed](#americans-declawed-for-externally-motivated-domination)

### &#x2605; [Racism Is A Lot Like Polio](#racism-is-a-lot-like-polio)

### &#x2605; [If You Advocate Racism...](#if-you-advocate-racism)

### &#x2605; [For the Social Justice Warriors...](#for-the-social-justice-warriors)

### &#x2605; [Were You Standing Up For Someone? Or Your Own Agenda?](#were-you-standing-up-for-someone)

### &#x2605; [Open Up the Debate and the Overton Window](#open-up-the-debate-and-the-overton-window)

# [$15 Minimum Wage?](#15-dollar-minimum-wage)

### &#x2605; [Why Should A Sixteen Year-Old Dropout Outsave A Teacher?](#why-should-a-sixteen-year-old-dropout-outsave-a-teacher)

### &#x2605; [Our Economic Pain is Driven By Out of Control Prices](#our-economic-pain-is-driven-by-out-of-control-prices)

### &#x2605; [Small Businesses Are Already Strained to the Breaking Point](#small-businesses-are-already-strained-to-the-breaking-point)

Basically, we're trying to avert what is a cross between AIDS and
neo-bolshevism from taking over and destroying America. That, and the
good guys are trying to culturally transform America into one that
overcomes decades of demoralization, is willing to fight if we need to
and seizes the day, in terms of the 21st century economy. As much as I
hate to admit it, America's best moves in the 21st century would have
been more of what Bush was doing. And I hate to admit it because I
hated that guy when he was in office.

<a name="americas-in-a-cultural-crisis" />

# [America's In A Cultural Crisis](#americas-in-a-cultural-crisis)

America's in a cultural crisis and there's some radical factions that
seem to have taken over.  Even though I'm a bit of a populist, I can
tell you that, in the long term, any major leftist cultural movement
right now will totally destroy this country and its economy before
2030, if it hasn't already. If we can stave that off without
succumbing to internal or external pressure, I have a real plan for
the next few decades that will transform not only America, but also
the world.

<a name="what-is-socialism-without-an-economy" />

### [What Is Socialism Without An Economy?](#what-is-socialism-without-an-economy)

I have to apologize ahead of time. My disdain for communism can get
out of hand. I am sympathetic to the problems you face, I promise.

What is socialism without a competitive economy? It's a fucking
third-world country in the making. That's what. I know there's some
people out there that really like the ideas of socialism. Yes, the
economic pains in America are painful. But, socialism destroys the
incentives people have for working. The numbers don't fucking work in
the long term. I wish they did. Wouldn't that be nice: we could just
feed the poor and house the homeless and break out our checkbook
whenever there were problems. Social ills? Poverty?  Just throw money
at it. As much money as it takes, year after year. It doesn't matter
how much.

Basically, the programs socialism has to offer that keep people eating
in times of protracted or prevelant poverty drain the coffers. They're
funded by tax dollars. And where are tax dollars made? *FROM REAL
ECONOMIC GROWTH AND VALUE!* These things come from nowhere else, so
when the economy eventually breaks, so does your fucking free ice
cream machine. It just don't work no more.

<a name="what-is-a-bolo-trebek" />

# [What is a Bolo, Trebek!](#what-is-a-bolo-trebek)

Have you noticed the creeping darkness in our country over the past
decade? Well I did and I was one of the first. This has everything to
do with OPM. IMO, we're are in the middle of a partially aborted
neo-Bolshevik revolution where a drunk doctor addicted to cheap money
has empowered the wrong people. There are multiple factions involved
and things are starting to get very patient.

<a name="we-werent-intended-to-have-an-opportunity-to-react" />

### [We Weren't Intended To Have an Opportunity To React](#we-werent-intended-to-have-an-opportunity-to-react)

The leftists never wanted us to figure this was happening until it was
too late. And so now we have to deal with this grotesque nightmare of
figurative "sepsis" ... No, it's not the kind of sepsis that somehow
gives you the persistent chlamydia from weeks of late night ragers and
promiscuous sex. Nope, this is the sepsis that turns America's own
immune system against itself. And now people are getting pissed.

<a name="its-a-cockfight" />

### [It's a Cockfight, But...](its-a-cockfight)

People seem to be waking up to the fact that we're in something like a
cockfight. Except, one of those roosters has it's head cut off and
it's not a fair fight. Oh yeah, and international bankers are trying
to take bets on who's going to win this fight. Typical, am I right?
In the Civil War, there were bankers from Europe who tried to do the
same damn thing, basically, except they wanted to do it in the middle
of civil war.

<a name="which-chicken-would-you-bet-on" />

### [Which Chicken Would You Bet On](#which-chicken-would-you-bet-on)

I don't know why that other rooster is fighting us, but I know that
we're losing. Or it sure as hell looks like we are because, to me,
it's obvious that an anti-American cancer has taken strong root in our
country. It's spreading and it's turning us against ourselves, via
HomeSec and our intelligence community. As far as I can see, someone
decided to take that totalitarian apparatus we constructed in the Bush
administration and they turned it against America. Then someone hacked
the comm protocols ... and oh yeh, *THEY HAVE A FUCKING LIST OF
AGENTS AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES*.

<a name="what-overton-window" />

### [What Overton Window?](#what-overton-window)

#### You Can Think About What We Tell You To...

#### And Don't Fucking Write About It If You Didn't Reblog It

Also known as "Regulations"

Meanwhile, this particular faction is has slammed the Overton Window
shut and they're pushing many policies which are going to wreck the
American economy, leaving the chips of the global economy in the hands
of whoever is driving this cockfight. That's the calling card of
Bolshevik politics: pursue policies with duplicitous arguments that
appeal to the poor in the *short-term* by siphoning wealth and
influence away from the rich and are disastrous for everyone in the
long-term.

In the end, when the dust settles, no one will have power or
money. And the people who get blamed? Well, it's the Bourgeoisie of
course! This requires a total reset, where the people installed with
power have zero generations of experience under their belt. Sounds
great right?  Well stuff that idea box full of your suggestions and if
you're lucky they'll use them against you, stealing the credit and
retaining the profits and using that against you too. The only thing
these neo-Bolsheviks managed to accomplish was a catastrophic economic
disaster while avoiding accountability via deceipt and duplicity.

<a name="fallout-zero-a-reality-show-from-bethesda" />

### [Fallout Zero: A Reality Show from Bethesda](#fallout-zero-a-reality-show-from-bethesda)

The fallout? America loses it's wealth and loses it's influence on a
global scale, placing the power in the hands of the shitdicks that
made this happen, all while leaving the common American with the same
damn problems they had before: crippling poverty. Oh, except "it's OK"
because "now there's no classes! Everybody's poor!" YAYY! Superfun!
Every American's just as poor as the other and the rest of the world
takes turns gangraping America for a century.

That's right, they out there fuckin' Lady Libery down by the harbor
and everyone in Manhattan can hear that bitch screaming, but because
she's got a bag on her head, she don't know it! She might be
asphixating from the gag in her throat, it's OK. It's OK folks. She
probably likes it. Lady Liberty's turnin blue in the face and
somebody's running a train on her and everyone knows it, but ... it's
OK?


<a name="america-has-foso" />

# [America has FOSO](#america-has-foso)

To me, this is equally terrifying as it is obvious. Why? BECAUSE THIS
IS HAPPENING AND THE PEOPLE WHO SHOULD STOP IT SEEM TO BE SOILING
THEMSELVES IN FEAR OF SPEAKING OUT. FOSO. These bozos have F.O.S.O.

<a name="fear-of-speaking-out" />

### [Fear of Speaking Out](#fear-of-speaking-out)

Why? If the answer is because of patriotism, that might be acceptable
to me. Depending on the circumstances.... However, I don't think
that's the case. It would seem that America as a whole is being
conditioned to be quiet. Just be quiet. Don't ask any questions. Don't
write about it or you'll lose your job. Don't speak about it on
TV. Keep talking about it on the internet and you'll find yourself on
a list. Any of the above, and good 'ole
[SMERSH](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SMERSH) will let you know that
they're out there watchin your kids walk home from school.

<a name="how-do-we-fix-this" />

# [How Do We Fix This?](#how-do-we-fix-this)

Make no mistake. Every fucking day, America's enemies gain
power. There may be no person in America more knowledgeable of how to
fight this than me. However, y'all gotta get this fucking gag out my
mouth and get me a position where I can tell people what to fucking
do and what to learn, without fearing that every person on Twitter or
Facebook is going to know what I said.

<a name="stand-up-for-your-rights" />

### [Stand Up For Your Rights!](#stand-up-for-your-rights)

The thing part of the social contract: if everyone stands up, then the
people can't be stopped. So if we know there's a problem then we can
stop that problem. This is why there's such an emphasis on not
informing the American public: the people doing this know we couldn't
possibly tolerate it. They know they wouldn't get away with it if we
knew. The truth is, we might as well all be in Guantanamo because we
all have blacks bags on our heads. The bags are an allusion. No, not
an illusion. Well, yes, both actually. The bag just means you don't
"get it." You're in Cuba and you don't even fucking know it.

<a name="beware-the-weaponized-self-interest-of-others" />

### [Beware the Weaponized Self-Interest of Others](#beware-the-weaponized-self-interest-of-others)

I've never lived in a situation like this. All I know is that America
is woefully unprepared to live in this. We have no idea what it would
feel like to live in an East German level situation, with a constant
campaign of cultural suppresion and externally driven reprogramming.
However, my own capacity for understanding machiavellian tactics of
tyranny scares the shit of me sometimes.

My advice: the number one thing to watch out for right now is getting
stabbed in the back those whom you thought were closest: your friends
and family. In a system like this, the level of information you expose
to the outside world represents your scope or surface area of
vulnerability. Therefore, keep your circle tight. Keep a close eye on
the people you let in. Trust no one. Stay aware of people who try to
confuse you. Understand your wants and needs, as well as those you let
close. Disdain those who shield this information from you.

<a name="study-the-situation-in-east-german" />

### [Study the Situation in East Germany](#study-the-situation-in-east-germany)

The self-interest of others will be weaponized against America. You
can bet on that. Study up on East Germany. In recent history, East
Germany represents what is probably the most similar situation to our
own right now.

<a name="above-all-else-the-american-economy" />

### [Above All Else, The American Economy](#above-all-else-the-american-economy)

Remember, what matters most right now is the American and global
economy in the 21st century. Regardless of what some foreign influence
tries to convince you, nothing else matters for America or for
Europe. If we lose influence, we're not just going to be gagged, we're
going to be strapped down. Almost nothing else matters besides
securing our future for the rest of the century. As much as I hated
the Project for a New American Century in my more liberal college
days, those assholes were thinking ahead.

<a name="intellectual-property-is-the-key" />

### [Intellectual Property is the Key](#intellectual-property-is-the-key)

#### To Power Growth in the Global Economy Until 2050

Whats the key to security in the global economy? Intellectual property
and ensuring that international agreements are held. Lose either one
and it's done. What's China think about intellectual property, laws
relevant to it or international rule of law for that matter? For the
past fifty years, they haven't given a shit about any of it, so long
as their actiosn don't cost them too much. That's why they didn't care
so much about violating copyright law, but they didn't sell
internationally.

However -- and I don't want to seem to be derogatory here but it's
kinda true -- China just doesn't give a shit about norms and rule of
law with regard to international court rulings, patent, copyright,
trademark or trade secrets. They don't care about international rule
of law in general. To me, that's scary. That is terrifying. That gives
me nightmares.

<a name="stand-up-for-international-cooperation-and-rule-of-law" />

### [Stand Up for International Cooperation and Rule of Law](#stand-up-for-international-cooperation-and-rule-of-law)

They will, however, follow those rulings insofar as they either (1)
line up with Chinese P.R.C. interests (e.g. they win a case at the
Hague) or (2) it just costs more value with regard to Chinese
interests than it adds. That's what scares the shit out of me. I fear
countries and leaders like this because the minute things spiral out
of control and the situation flips, that tendancy will not only
continue, the violations of international norms will exponentiate.

Stalin might be the precise worst example of someone who just didn't
give a shit about agreements he made or shit he said. The only thing
that mattered was his psychopathic tendency to get what he needed at
that moment to help him in the next moment. What he said at Yalta
didn't matter and you'd have to be batshit insane to think that
Churchill or Roosevelt actually bought that bullshit. What he said in
1945 didn't matter in 1950. That psychopath was informing North Korea
with military movements of American forces in the region because he
knew where the situation would lead. He knew that insofar as long as
he had our trust, he could continue to rake in the chips he'd need to
get the things he needed in the end.

China's indifference to international rule of law or adherence to
foreign policy agreements doesn't even approach that of Stalin, so
that's not a great example. But if it suddenly became worse, it would
absolutely begin to register on the Stalin scale of state-psychopathy.

<a name="external-interests-never-accurately-represent-internal-interests" />

### [External Interests Never Accurately Represent Internal Interests](#external-interests-never-accurately-represent-internal-interests)

Remember, this is external interest that is compelling Americans to
act against themselves. These are our enemies and not our
friends. Look what happened to me and ask: what would you do? If it
was you? Your friend? Your son or daughter? How would you react?

Again: this is an external interest. No internal interest would
essentially place ankle-weights on major contributors to the US
economy. The things that tech companies are forced to comply with are
absolutely not in line with American economic interests. They want to
control us and restrain us, first and foremost. They want their job to
be easy, which is why it's necessary to blindfold the average
American.

Make no mistake, they don't give a shit about how America performs in
the world economy! And in fact, communism and hard-lin leftist assault
the right to property with a religious level of zeal, primarily to
stifle competition to their own agenda. Because when people acquire
property and wealth, they gain a foothold and can influence other
people. So, therefore, for the same reason, a foreign interest
motivated by communist ideas won't want America to obtain the same
foothold to fight back!!

Ain't that some shit?!

<a name="if-you-knowingly-aid-the-enemy-right-now-you-are-a-traitor" />

### [If You Knowingly Aid the Enemy Right Now, You Are A Traitor](#if-you-knowingly-aid-the-enemy-right-now-you-are-a-traitor)

*TRAITORS ARE TRAITORS!* If you are knowingly helping some external
interest overtake America, you are a fucking traitor. Depending on
your level of complicity, you should be shot by a firing squad. They
will contort your understanding of the situation and try to convince
you that their goals are the same with the people of America. They're
not. An external force conducting a high level of economic,
information and psychological warfare doesn't give a shit about
America. They want to quickly take away our guns, figuratively and
literally. That's it.

<a name="americans-declawed-for-externally-motivated-domination" />

### [Americans' Declawed](#americans-declawed-for-externally-motivated-domination)

#### For Externally Motivated Domination

They want to declaw us. They want to turn American's against each
other to distract our energy. That will make us withdraw our energy in
applied foreign policy abroad. Whatever it is: economic issues, ethnic
tensions, a movement from local Americans to fight an American
Stasi. It doesn't matter. If it keeps our focus at home, "they"
steadily make gains abroad.

<a name="racism-is-a-lot-like-polio" />

### [Racism Is A Lot Like Polio](#racism-is-a-lot-like-polio)

#### It Infects Our Youth, Exhausting Us, Just to Cripple America in the End

This is why American needs to put away that dumbass, divisive racist
bullshit and unite. We need to unite as one because if we don't we're
going to get our ass kicked abroad. And then nothing will matter and,
if racist bullshit prevented us from addressing international issues,
then after American influence collapses, you can bet that racist
bullshit will keep us there. So we need to stop it. Right now. And you
can bet that those same influences that are hurting America are going
to try to egg it on. So watch out for that shit. This is a battle of
wits and, since the end of WW2, Americans just have no fucking clue
what it means to be the Underdog. And it shows.

And you can see that we've had a dialogue on it on racism. Both sides
have made gains in this dialogue and experiment over the past two
years: both the side representing interests of minorities and -- no
not the side representing racists, fuck those guys -- the side
representing people who are tired of the race card being used to
control the Overton Window to stagnated debate on internal and
external politics. I am so tired of having the race card thrown at me
for what are simply political purposes. IMO, such behavior shows
disgusting disregard of what is a critically sensitive issue.

<a name="if-you-advocate-racism" />

### [If You Advocate Racism...](#if-you-advocate-racism)

#### Have You Actually Considered How That Would Play Out?

No, I really want to know. What are your ideas? What do you think
America should look like in 10 or 50 years? How would your beliefs
actually help people if they were widespread?

For the racists out there who would advocate for the implementation of
such policies ... have you even pictured what that would look like? It
doesn't make sense and actually represents a broken, misinformed,
almost schizophrenic view of domestic and international policy. What
are you going to do, reimplement Jim Crow and Segregation? How's that
going to work out? A person like this forgets certain economic
realities ... no one's going to want to trade with you or help you.

<a name="for-the-social-justice-warriors" />

### [For the Social Justice Warriors...](#for-the-social-justice-warriors)

I empathize with your mission, but have you considered that it's
really not your battle? It's great when people stand up for others,
but when is it enough? When is it too much? Are you so sure that the
monsters you're fighting are real? Could it be possible that you're
wrong? What if you are duped into irreparably damage someone's life on
the basis of fighting for social justice, but it turns out that person
couldn't be further from a racist? What if some foreign political
force was pushing America to fight itself, so that we'd be too tied
down with social problems at home, we'd lose a ton of ground in
foreign policy?

When you strike out at someone for being racist, how can you actually
be sure? Did you ever bother to verify? Did someone tell you? Did you
see a social media post? When you lashed out at them, how did your
actions affect the situation? Did you ameliorate some tension in that
environment? Did you protect someone? Did the racist change his
beliefs? Or did you even bother to verify what that person's beliefs
were, before or after you intervened? What if that person got the
wrong impression of the situation and your interference drove them to
seek comfort with a group of people that would make them more racist?
How does that help racial and ethnic issues at all? How were other
people in the situation involved?

<a name="were-you-standing-up-for-someone" />

### [Were You Standing Up For Someone? Or Your Own Agenda?](#were-you-standing-up-for-someone)

One problem I have with social justice warriors, in my personal
experiences, they **used** racism to advance some other agenda, often
political or just to help isolate me at work. If I could prove that
happened and they were motivated in that way, how would you consider
that persons actions then? Is that ethical to use such a divisive
emotional issue? Now, what if I told you that these people in my
personal experiences were mostly white? And, what if I told you that
they never overtly asked me anything? And that the deceived the people
around me and handled everything mostly behind my back? I never had
the chance to set things right. In the long term, on a social scale,
how does this advance racial issues? That would seem to exacerbate
them! And it makes me sick! That makes me want to puke!

And what people on the left don't understand is that the people they
are vehemently demeaning as racists don't actually want that... for the
most part. Yes, there are some idiots who might actually want
that. What people on the left also forget is that there really are
nations that intend America harm in a very serious way. And by
clamping down the Overton Window, you have basically amputated
America's ability to protect itself from what are nation-to-nation
issues, not racist issues.

<a name="open-up-the-debate-and-the-overton-window" />

### [Open Up the Debate and the Overton Window](#open-up-the-debate-and-the-overton-window)

Leftists have controlled the "lexicon" of rhetorical arguments you're
allowed to use in any debate on any issues for quite some time. It
stems from the tendancy of the Ivy League and academia to be:

#### (1) Too smart for their own good and not wise enough to understand why things are often better off left alone.

#### (2) And, in the case of the Ivy League, smart enough to enumerate all possible arguments to understand how to deconstruct arguments that are counter to the attainment of ... uhhh ... the NWO's master plan.

Of course, I am skeptical of the people out there constantly warning
of the Illuminati and NWO. I mean, yes that *kinda* is a real thing,
but from what I've seen (1) the effort to fight it is often more of an
effort to distract those who would try to stop it and (2) some of
the goals of the "NWO" aren't actually that bad, when taken in the
proper context. Anyways...... moving on.

<a name="15-dollar-minimum-wage" />

# [$15 Minimum Wage?](#15-dollar-minimum-wage)

Controlling considered statements and acceptable conclusions for
arguments basically gives these neo-Bolsheviks carte blanche to win
any debate. Doing so allows them to motivate Americans to fanatically
pursue policies which are actually detrimental to our long-term
interests. $15 minimum wage is a great example of a policy with a
particular value (fifteen dollars) that would extinguish small
business and trigger downstream consequences in the American economy.

At my first real job, I started as an intern making minimum wage when
it was less than `$7.00/hr`. I didn't blink at the pay rate because I
knew the experience far outweighed it. And I've learned there's wisdom
in achieving goals like higher payrates a step at a time. If I had
dramatically increased my pay rate or salary and topped out, what
would keep me working for self-improvement?

<a name="why-should-a-sixteen-year-old-dropout-outsave-a-teacher" />

### [Why Should A Sixteen Year-Old Dropout Outsave A Teacher?](#why-should-a-sixteen-year-old-dropout-outsave-a-teacher)

If a 30 year old teacher with student loans makes as much money as a
sixteen year-old who drops out to work sixty hours a week, something
is very wrong with the economy! Yet, a teacher works more than `500
hrs/quarter` and perhaps up to `600 hrs`. For an average salary of
around `$45,000`. A 16 year-old could drop out and work full-time for
`$15/hr` and `500 hrs/quarter` to make around `$30,000`, but it's
conceiveable that anyone in the workforce could make around `$40,000`
by working about `60 hrs/wk`. What motivates a disinterested student
to stay in school? What motivates a student to go to college when the
benefits don't outweigh the costs?

<a name="our-economic-pain-is-driven-by-out-of-control-prices" />

### [Our Economic Pain is Driven By Out of Control Prices](#our-economic-pain-is-driven-by-out-of-control-prices)

The real economic problem here isn't that the minimum wage is too low.
It's that prices and costs are way too high for many products, but
especially the services Americans have come to know and love. How many
monthly bills do you have now? How many did you have five years ago?
If you can't answer that question because you weren't working at that
age, then you honestly don't have much to complain about. Sorry to be
an asshole, but that's life.

How many monthly bills were you paying ten years ago? Twenty years? If
you were working forty or sixty hours a week at minimum wage, what
percentage were your monthly services, compared to your wages after
taxes? Today, people making minimum wages will have almost nothing
left after rent, phone, car, insurance, health, internet, tv, online
subscriptions, probation fees, electric, heat, and others, but how
many of those bills existed in the Nineties? The Eighties? The
Sixties?

However, raising the minimum wage is just a fact of life. Fifteen
Dollars? Hell fucking no that is borderline criminal, negligent,
insane or all of the above. A suggestion that numbs pain now, but
causes significant damage in the long run. It's like a questionable
doctor giving the high school quarterback with a slipped disc a
prescription for oxycontin the night before the big game, sayin
"You're fine! Take as many of these as you need 'til you feel dizzy
and you go out there and win that game, son." and then smackin him on
the ass on the way out of the office. If that's his doctor's idea of
treatment, that guy needs a new one.

<a name="#small-businesses-are-already-strained-to-the-breaking-point" />

### [Small Businesses Are Already Strained to the Breaking Point](#small-businesses-are-already-strained-to-the-breaking-point)

With all due respect to Bernie Sanders as someone who truly cares
about issues that are hurting millions of American's out there, the
$15 minimum wage was a social media hack to gain support and quickly
build a movement early on. Such a number would shutter so many small
businesses and place a massive incentive for corporations to automate
away all of the jobs those people had, all while destroying options
for businesses to structure incentivization and the motivation for
people to go to college. What's the answer, then? Lower the costs and
prices of services and products in America that leave people in
poverty. Why doesn't welfare help reduce rates of poverty? That's a
really good question to ask if you are in favor of a major increase to
minimum wage

# Part Two: [A Little Psychological Torture Never Left A Mark]()

[Leave No Marks](https://insomniadiary.wordpress.com/2014/01/18/icrc-report-on-the-treatment-of-fourteen-high-value-detainees-in-cia-custody/),
the ICRC report I wish I'd seen a long time ago. If so, this whole
thing might have been a deterrent. If I'd heard that phrase, I might
have "gotten" it. I'll discuss that more in the second part.
