---
title: "Facets of Greatness: Congressional Power Structures"
categories: "blog facets-of-greatness"
tags: "business psychology leadership sociology savingtheworld philosophy"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Just to clarify right at the start: I support Trump for president. I
think the guy has some great ideas, though admittedly I had a hard
time supporting him until early 2016. The reason is because I think
our country is facing some hard times and we need an outsider and
fresh policies.

###

Washington seems gridlocked on so many issues. This isn't a bug; it's
a feature. In part, this is how the system was designed by the
founders. They wanted a system where there would be two parties that
would need to vie for power. Our system differs from most republics
and democracies across the world. Our parties don't form
coalitions. Further, our bicameral system with a House and Senate is
another aspect to the Legislative branch that slows down rapid reform.
And most of all, the system of commitees requires that any laws
receive a ton of discussion before hitting the floor, so they are well
vetted by congressmen who are familiar with the issues they
revolve. But this can stall out quick change.

This friction actually promotes stability in the long term. It makes a
republic less susceptible to foreign influence, one of the biggest
weaknesses of a democratic government with fairly open borders. This
also prevents wild changes in policy implementations, were we ever to
have a fickle populace. Frequent fluctuations and reversals in policy
means that our economy, it's businesses and industries don't have time
to adapt. Reforms are expensive, regardless of who supports them and
regardless of whether they are justified and beneficial in the
longterm. They are expensive in terms of implementation and in the
cost to the economy. Businesses need to be able to project and prepare
for policy changes.

### Reform requires a movement (title)

Higher cost to reforms means that the people who want it most end up
winning. To change something in this country, you have to get popular
support, especially if a policy is contrary to special interests.

That means you have to build a movement. How do you build a movement?
you relate to people. You figure out how to connect to them. You get
them emotionally invested in something. If something else is more
important, then they'll gravitate towards that. But when people are
emotionally and financially invested, they care. They pay attention to
the news, the laws, the policies and the political games in
washington.

And what happens then? Smarter, well-researched policies
... generally.

(maybe remove) In the Nineties and Aughties, there were just too many
people who weren't paying attention. Because, for the most part, it
all felt good. Why? Cheap credit provided plenty of liquidity for the
economy. Cheap credit leads to misallocation of resources. We weren't
really aware there were problems or if we were, we didn't know why. We
weren't reading the signals.

Keynesian economics are great for promoting stability and resilience
against minor issues, but the drawback to cheap credit is that we can
numb ourselves against the pain we should feel that would force us to
change. Just to be clear, we need Keynesian policies and we need the
Fed. A stable economy means more accurate projections and anticipation
of trends.

### Economic Effects of Election Outcome

Ever heard that the outcome of the presidential election affects the
economy? Policy & platform aside, does that mean that one president
would lead to a better economy and the other would lead to a worse
economy? Not really and again, that is a general statement which
doesn't take specific platform issues into account. However, the
outcome will always help some industries and hurt others. So it
doesn't imply a simple "growth" or "loss" of the economy as it implies
a shift of influence between various industries and businesses.

Once you take the specific platform issues and realistic policy
changes into account, then yes! there is a significant difference
between candidates. That guy gets to run the executive branch of the
US Government. You bet your ass one candidate is going to better than
the other.

And just real quick, here's the deal with socialism: it's fucking
great! It's amazing! Right until your coffers dry up and you can't
fund your services. How you gonna do fund services without liquidity
to pay for them? Something like that wouldn't happen all at once, but
generally it does. And it's verrrry verry sneaky. It occurs on the
timescale of generations; not years, not election cycles.

Are there problems? Yes! The prices in the US economy are generally
out of control and have been for years. This is tough if you don't
make much money. But this technological shift? Costs and prices are
going to drop. Longstanding economic assumptions will be challenged
and broken. It hasn't happened yet. It's not going to happen
overnight. But it will happen. And they're going to have to rewrite
the college economics textbooks for Micro and Macro.

It can be difficult to relay the context of policy decisions to
average americans and then retain strategic advantage in the global
marketplace. China is mostly a closed country and they have so many
advantages in this regard. We just let people walk on over. I'm going
to write an article on illegal immigration very soon. This is mostly a
national security issue and it's a long-term problem. Again, it's
sinister in that it's not a big enough issue to tackle, so no one
does. The consequences are easier to deal with if we make tough
decisions now. The tensions are worse if we keep waiting.

### We Need Well-Research Policy

#### .. Tectonic Cultural Shift

There's a lot of change getting ready to go down in the whole
world. If you've been living under a rock, it stems from technology
and the tectonic cultural shift that's occuring. There are problems
with this. It's not going to be easy. and it's going to be fast. If we
do not nail it right, we're going to lose. Not everything, but we'll
lose pretty big. This isn't a high-probability risk, but it would be a
costly one. So we need to be prepared.

So, as much as I detest the Citizen's United decision, this is
actually one reason that there should be a lot of money in Washington
... for now! *Just hear me out!*

We need people who are well paid to research policy. And if you've
noticed, neither the Republicans nor the Democrats seem to want to do
much about it, as much as the people on both sides hate it. Why's
that? Both parties are sucking that teet. They are both gulping down
that cash. In part, it helps drive Washington.

Way too much money in politics is usually a bad thing. It leads to
corruption and bad decisions. I don't like Super PAC's for many
reasons. I detest them, actually. I can't stand money in politics. I
admire politicians who abstain from particular funding sources, like
Ron Paul and Bernie Sanders. And yes, Donald Trump, too. I can't
recall if he changed direction, but he didn't accept very much
money. And ya damn straight. Money comes with strings. Your grandma
might have given you money out of the goodness of her heart, but not
that lobbyist.

But right now, we need smart people in Washington getting paid good
money to research policy. And we need a lot of those people in the
system. Again, for now...

### Game Design

- the country's systems were designed with change in mind.
  - the founders fully expected large changes in policy and public
    sentiment after the founding of our country.
  - this reminds me a bit of Blizzard's excellent game design
    - Blizzard is renowned for balance in their games. that's what
      made Starcraft, Diablo and Warcraft compelling.
    - but i've noticed that it seems that they anticipated not only
      the game balance, but the metagame balance.
      - they seemed to understand how the strategies would change as
        they released minor changes in patches
      - this means they did a ridiculous amount of play-testing for
        various settings.
    - i'm giving Blizzard a ton of credit here, but there is a reason
      their titles are amoung the most popular in professional gaming
    - and the point is that it seems like they anticipated the
      long-term evolution and *that* is why they were successful
    - instead of nailing down a single "balanced" game configuraion,
      they tested Starcraft strategies under different settings
      - and understood which ones would be dominant as they made minor
        changes.
      - from here, they transition from one set of dominant strategies
        to another and wait for the players to catch up.
      - *this* keeps metagame interesting for professionals.
      - *this* requires games to invest time and energy in keeping up
        with trends in the gaming world
      - that investment? it means that players will feel committed to
        Blizzard titles.
      - that discussion for metagame? it also drives SEO while
        simultaneously fostering a community around their titles
- sidenote: if you haven't figured it out yet, i am not a pathetic
  loser. i fucking know my shit. i assess companies and their business
  strategies all the time. i cannot help it. and it is so irritating
  to have NEVER had the chance even once to build a product with a
  team.
  - the reason why i have never had the chance is because there are
    negative people who know that I would be successful. and once I
    got my first success, I would fucking multiply that shit. and
    after I multiplied it, I would exponentiate it.
  - I intuitively understand parent/subsidiary politics and business
    strategy. I know what it means to fucking own the market. and the
    fact that I barely have two quarters to rub together is bullshit
    and everyone in this country knows it.

--------

This can prevent quick change, which is normally a good thing. The
power in a republic should be distributed across the generations, but
the people that make the most critical decisions should be 

- political outsiders would likely face some difficulty integrating with
  existing power structures in washington
  - that is, unless they already have a large network to leverage.
    e.g. from business.
  - people who have been in washington for a decade have a major
    advantage over those who are new to it. those who've been in
    politics for a decade would have a similar advantage.
  - though the business sense definitely helps, along with your
    network.

- i think that some invested businesspeople would run into
    conflicts of interest, of which they may be more than wary
  - however, in politics, everything is about appearances and, so,
    you'll find things twisted against you, just because it seems
    believable.  hopefully people are reasonable about this, but i'm
    sure things get dirty quick.
  - so divestment would be worthwhile because if you no longer have
    your assets & investments, then you can't be said to be influenced
    by them.  or at least it's a lot harder.
  - so, i think, a general rule: politicians don't mix well with
    active business ventures, which also means that you are better
    off to forego opportunities while in politics.
  - another option is to restructure your assets/investments
    - you can't be expected to run a business while obligated to the
      duties of federal office.  at least it would be hard to do so.
    - so, then your best bet, if you can't divest, is to find someone
      to manage them for you
    - but this kind of sucks because you have to trust that person to
      not fuck you over
      - e.g. by putting you in the position where you can't be seen
        having profited by visibly correcting this person's
        mistakes. they could make a series of subtle bad management
        decisions, which you wouldn't have had time to see, giving
        them some advantage.  like dropping the stock price
        temporarily, allowing them to attempt to skim ownership of the
        company, in an opportunistic manner.
        - an oddly specific scenario and not likely, but i can imagine
          that there would be other scenarios that'd be hard to see.
  - obviously, assets are less risky than active business ventures
  - some industries are riskier than others, especially those who
    allocate extensive resources towards lobbying

- congress (435 reps and 100 senators) as an example of recomposing a set
  of people into various networks, based on some meeting some
  functional objective.... better way to word this?
  - you can divide the senate/house into leadership, administrators &
    senators/reps.
    - you can further organize this view via seniority, political
      influence or on some other dimension
  - you can organize each house by committee and tie in relationships
    to committee staff members
  - construct a network with each congressman's staff
    - and understand how each office coordinates with others
    - there has to be some kind of differential, where some offices
      and some faculty members exhibit more influence
      - both toward specific relationships and in general
    - mapping this out in your head is crucial

- understanding how to recognize/navigate/assess/prioritize these
  networks, structures and connections enables you to work smarter,
  get more done and rise up through the ranks.
  - as someone who's struggled alot in social situations, it's
    incredibly frustrating to not be able to see how these things work
    - if you don't it's very easy to expend a ton of time/energy in
      the wrong place, basically spinning your wheels.
  - that said, it's one thing to notice how these things work and
    another to be capable of pulling off a coordinated strategy
    leveraging players from your party and reaching across the aisle
  - you have to be keenly aware of how other people perceive the
    system, both those in your party and the opposing party

- understanding how people's needs are going to change from today to
  tomorrow to next year. and it introduces yet another dimension of
  complexity to master.
  - if you know that someone wants something very badly today, but
    probably won't want to expend the political capital on it in a
    month, then it may or may not be wise to compromise with that
    person based on their current needs
  - similarly, if you need something badly today, you might not need
    it in a month or a year.  or it might just become less relevant
    than it seems today.  so bargaining for it might be wise, to
    ensure that people know you're working towards their
    interests. yet, if you know that the factors determining that need
    will change soon, then it could be a waste of energy pursuing
    that.
  - this is crucial because predicting and understanding this means
    you aren't slogged down by unnecessary battles and that your
    effort today is worth at least as much as it is tomorrow.
    - and a corollary is that by introducing issues you can force the
      opposing party to divide their energy, or at least draw it
      towards a more limited range of their platform ... which can
      help you predict how they are priortizing their issues.
    - these techniques really can't be understated
  - and everyone wants to look like they're taking part in slaying
    whatever dragon is rearing it's head at the moment. but is it
    really worth the energy?

- congressman and faculty operate as power brokers
  - this entails minimizing access to information and power
    - minimizing available surface area for information/power
      increases ability of individual to leverage info/power as an
      asset
      - while simultaneously increasing it's value for other players
      - that is, if one person has lowered barriers to access for
        info/power, then the value for that info/favor is reduced for
        other players
      - so they're breaking the game for others.
        - i hate that it works like this but it does
      - i value transparency, making info freely available and not
        convoluting my own actions to increase the value of some
        info/influence i might be able to offer someone else
      - while improper usage of these tactics can lead one into
        trouble, it's just kinda how it works (i think.....)
  - so there are individual incentives for behavior as a kind of power
    broker, but there are also group incentives at various levels
    - so, in some instances, leveraging an opportunity when it goes
      against party or committee objectives can rub people the wrong
      way, at best
      - at the same time, it's important for people to be able to
        break rank.  if everyone is bound to one rigid platform or
        another, it's too easy to stymie progress.
  - there's a "dark side" to alot of these rules, obviously. i'm not
    really going to detail that aspect of things
    - but usually there is the potential for a politician to tailor
      his message to a specific audience. this is just life, really.
    - but, basically, you gotta watch how you sell what you sell
      because you want the people you compromise with to feel like
      they got what they wanted today, next week and next year.
      - if people are satisfied at first, and later feel shortchanged,
        that will build up.
      - this is especially true when you're trying to establish
        a compromise with "resources" which are hard to pin a dollar
        value to

- the nature of "resources" in congress
  - these resources are like a kind of currency ...
    - though they are more like commodities in that the value of each
      type can't be equated to others.
      - and two instances of one type will vary wildly in perceived
        value.
      - and an instance of a resource varies in value to each party
        and group that is involved
  - the value is derived from appearances
    - it is not a personal subjective value.  that is, it doesn't
      matter what the thing is worth to you personally.  what matters
      is what it's worth to other people, although this is true for
      most everything.
    - the value of these resources can't really be discretized .. or
      have a numeric, comparable value attached to them.  and they
      shouldn't really.  that's getting uncomfortably close to ethical
      issues.
  - i don't know the specific rules behind ethics for each of these
    resource types or in general. i know that it is very much
    dependent on the manner in which you make an offer
    - or the way you market it to the other party.
    - i do know that anything quid pro quo and especially that which
      is verbally acknowledged as such ...
      - i guess it just doesn't sound great: "i give you X for Y"
      - although it has to work that way sometimes, I'm sure it could
        get you into trouble in some instances or with some resource
        types.
    - honestly, the thought of taking stock of these "resources" as a
      commodity is a bit upsetting to me. but they are tools to push
      for the change you want to see.

  - some resources are fixed in some way.
    - there is only one Speaker of the House and one Minority Whip
      - one Majority/Minority leader
      - there's a fixed number of commitee leadership roles that can
        help you work legislation through
    - there is a limited time each year for the house/senate agenda
      - same applies to committees, which sometimes handle only one
        bill per issue per session.
        - obviously, if it's an important issue or one
        - this is one reason it's been so hard to get marijuana reform
          through the Criminal Justice committees.
          - AFAIK they would take one symbolic action on it per year,
            up until the last decade (maybe a little further)
          - medical was a bit easier, but progress can be stalled
            easily at the committee. this is a mechanism in our
            government that is quite frustrating, but there are
            reasons for enabling that control.

  - bartering for this or anything else requires that you be creative
    & flexible in finding ways to offer value to others
    - rookies on capital hill are going to have to work harder to
      obtain some resources.
  - amendments and bills - these can be used for compromises
  - floor time & agenda
    - unless you have a few years under your belt and have served
      others, then i imagine this would be less available to you than
      to others
      - this increases demand for floor time and agenda influence for
        junior congressmen, meaning they have to barter for it.
  - opportunity & service
    - one can leverage an opportunity or role as part of a compromise
    - or perform some service in aid to a cause, group effort,
      campaign, etc.
      - and leverage the promise of this service
      - or the value of completed service to one's own personal
        reputation
    - and likewise, it's useful to identify/estimate opportunities for
      service to use as leverage ... or as a way to gauge various
      things
  - pr/publicity/press
    - some actions can be undertaken in congress to gain PR points or
      publicity on an issue.
      - I doubt this is the primary motivating factor in deciding
        whether or not to take an action, but you have to understand
        how your actions will affect your relationships with people
        around you.
        - crucial for maintaining relationships with funding sources
          and lobbyists
      - in fact, visible action is so crucial that one should review
        the nature of promises both public and private made to
        supporters, at least once every quarter or so
        - enumerating your supporters, their needs and their
          expectations helps you ensure that your giving back to those
          who are pushing you forward
  - budgets (office/staff for congressman, etc. and committee staff)
    - if you hold an office, legislative, executive, judicial,
      administrative, or otherwise, then I'd imagine you'd have some
      kind of budget.
      - in many cases, it's probably not managed personally, but you
        have influence over it.
        - money <=> power
  - personal time
    - one has to leverage their time efficiently, while remaining
      flexible, which becomes incredibly difficult as you gain
      influence
  - your understanding of the system
    - how you model the system and perceive the relationships between
      people is incredibly valuable
      - in fact, this might be one of your greatest sources of value


  - committee agenda & time



- understanding how to estimate, prioritize and schedule your
  available resources
  - need to be able to take stock of the tools available to you and
    how each kind differs by nature.
    - some resources are more appropriate
    - some resources are more scarce
    - a resource's value differs from you to them
      - identify this and utilize it
  - seeking mutual benefit is best.  it's win, win, win
    - you win bc you get what you want.
    - they win because they get what they want
    - and you win again because you profited in some other way in
      giving them what they wanted ... this could be shady though
  - seeking long-term mutual benefit is even better
  - remember that some relationships are meant to grow and others are
    not. help those who need it, but don't forget to help yourself
