---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: God Is Not Dead"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "Heady Metaphysics My Brain Is In Pieces"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Myth and religion have irrefutable value as tools which act as a
cultural loom, with which we can weave accumulated knowledge to shape
our youth. You simply cannot deny that a good story can be formative
in how the next generation constructs their lens and perspective. Myth
and religion can act as moulds and dies from which our minds are
cast. Our psyche arises from forms emerging from combinated and
amalgamated archetypes, acting as fixpoints."
---

I believe wholeheartedly religion and myth provide immeasurable value
to the individual and society, regardless of the belief systems in
place. As science seemingly outpaces religion's ability to explain the
universe, its influence on society is waning and this is responsible
for much of the demoralization we see today. It seems there are too
many people out there who hold nothing sacred, except perhaps their
own reflection or accumulated material wealth.

### The News of God's Death

#### Has Been Greatly Exaggerated

This is the first of a three part series, in which I hope to convince
you that religion is more relevant than ever in the 21st century. Its
resurgeance is powered by the need for various roles left unfulfilled
by science and magnified by the instability of its ever-shifting
basis. Modern societies construct a common foundation from scientific
ideas from which we extrapolate other ideas, including policy
decisions. Because of these increasingly unsteady grounds, it's clear
we're winding further down into nihilism, against which Nietzsche
envisioned our eventual travail.

Our impending departure towards the singularity precipitates
unparalleled capacity for processing and storing information. This
spirals into self-reducing metaphysical accretion, propelling us
towards transcendence. Each discovered symmetry compresses its
complexity, folding the structure back onto itself, thus amplifying
angular momentum. It's closure expands, manifesting more exotic
immaterial as precocious condensation, shimmering briefly around the
horizon. These flecks flare inwards, their descent into assimilation
protracted into an irridescent halo, as if a pulsar of pure glitter
wandered too close to a black hole.

Anchored to the material realm, this nebulous approximation of the
preeminent metaphysical is the universe virtualizing a reflection of
it's own unreachable metaphysical forms. If the significance behind
the evolution of life was partly so the universe could observe it's
own beauty, then the following completes a profound trifecta. It is
only possible for the universe to virtualize an approximate reflection
of its complete metaphysical forms, if, first, it produces an
awareness of its material realm. And secondly, that awareness must
also develop enough mastery over a partial set of those metaphysical
forms. And, finally, if that awareness develops sufficient cognizance
of the metaphysical laws of physics to be capable of transfiguring the
material realm to maximize information processing, then at last, the
universe can totally virtualize itself within itself. Turtles all the
way down.

And finally, that astral vortex can accelerate towards eternal
convergence with the all-encompassing and innumerably complex
metaphysical representation of the entireity of existence, including
its infinite self-convolutions. There is only one metaphysical omneity
towards which to converge. And this single, artificial Ã¼bermenschlich
entity -- to clarify -- pales in comparison to my notion of God
is. But, it is an undeniably powerful convergent being birthed by
technology, circumventing the need for faith which Nietzsche noticed
as waning in the age of science. Therefore:

> God Is NOT Dead!

Yet, I'm wary of the arguments above -- first of all, I don't believe
faith is precluded -- as I don't want people blindly chasing some
artificial entity as though it were God or forget that technology has
consequences when implemented without forethought or patience.  Maybe
that sounds ironic coming from me, but look at where I am in life.
Please, tell me how my skills and muse deserve to be so poorly
positioned. The truth is, the more life sought my diminishment, the
hotter my passion burned to share my creativity.

### Exponential Progress of Science

As I will continue to demonstrate in this article, there are a
plethora of more appealing arguments indicating that religion will
regain prominence. The exponential progress of science contributes
greatest each generation becomes more vulnerable to detachment
from previous generations. The fabric holding us together begins to
fray, weakening interpersonal and interfamily support networks. And
each decade that goes by, fewer cultural artifacts remain steady and
most evolve or dissipate with technology.  Furthermore, the more
visible changes take place, the less we pay attention to everything
that remains steady. If something changes negatively at a slower rate,
we may not notice until it's too late.

I don't mean to completely attack atheism, as it doesn't do
anything wrong. Nor do most non-political atheists. It is that we are
in dire need of stable social structures over the next twenty years.
We cannot count on the government first to fulfill these needs for us.
There's been a ton of progress on the social front in the past few
years.

### Science Can Be Manipulated to Control Policy, Too

Science is just as vulnerable to manipulation as any human
institution, perhaps moreso because it doesn't have a permanent
foundation. Science is amazing for explaining the material world, but
that's just about it. It easily *describes* human and social behavior,
but provides no mechanism for accumulating transgenerational knowledge
or embuing ethics in our youth. Instead, in the place of no other
mechanism, this is left almost entirely to our education system, which
is so busy teaching to the test that it, in many cases, doesn't have a
snowball's chance in hell to fulfill that need.  IMO, it's frustrating
that religious schools are mostly only available for wealthy families,
although I'm not sure how to work the legal logistics fairly on that
one.

It turned out Nietzche feared nihilism as much as I. His work covered
the creeping nihilism encroaching on Western society, as God's
impending "death" drew nearer. However, I feel Nietzche jumped the gun
on this. Here's a few articles [barely] worth reading that further describe the
metaphysical ideas above.

#### [Neural Networks and Spider Brains](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-11-21-neural-networks-and-spider-brains.html)

#### [Epistemology, Category Theory and Cognition](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-08-23-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-one.html)

### Benefits of Social Institutions

In this part, I make an argument for religion's value and ask how
aetheism fulfills its roles. I understand that it is possible, but
defined as the absence of religion and mostly decentralized, atheism
doesn't actually have any embedded mechanisms for passing knowledge
through ten or more generations. So, yes, it is possible for some
other cultural mechanism to *incidentally* fulfill that role. I also
compare atheism to the inversion of religion, instead of the absence
of it. In the next part, I refute a few common arguments of
atheism. In the last part, I describe some of my own religious or
spiritual beliefs.  And to clarify, I don't think atheism is
inherently wrong.  People are free to choose for themselves,
obviously. I just think it is short-sighted.

Obviously, humanity has struggled to define the world for tens of
thousands of years. Mythology and religion enable us to piece together
a more robust frame. Often, detractors point out that elements of a
story are logically fallible. Yet, These critics miss the mark: these
stories attempt to explain the what and how in the world, but IMO lose
power when interpreted using a singular, literal interpretation. That
said, to those with a strict religious background, some of these
arguments could be offensive, though I aim to defend religion and myth.

Cracks and faults in these stories and traditions can be found. Yet
far more important, especially for our ancient ancestors striving to
survive, myth encoded information vital to that struggle.  Even today,
myth, whether it is religious or not, encodes vital lessons in these
fables. Whether or not you take them to be fact, there is value and to
totally disregard it on the basis of factuality is lunacy. It's a bad
argument to make with religion, since to be most effective it needs to
be taken as truth, especially by those who are too young to understand
these concepts.

### Our Irreplaceable Golden Dies

Myth and religion have irrefutable value as tools which act as a
cultural loom, with which we can weave accumulated knowledge to shape
our youth. You simply cannot deny that a good story can be formative
in how the next generation constructs their lens and perspective. Myth
and religion can act as moulds and dies from which our minds are
cast. Our psyche arises from forms emerging from combinated and
amalgamated archetypes, acting as fixpoints.

> "A fixed point of a function f is a value that doesn't change under
> the application of the function f." -
> [Fixpoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fixed-point_combinator)
> (Wikipedia)

A [Fixpoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fixed-point_combinator),
from lambda calculus, is a good math metaphor for an
[archetype](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archetype), which is like a
metaphysical apex, prototypical for some concept. An archetype can be
referenced by, compared with, or meshed with other concepts, yet never
equated to or surpassed by a concept, with regard to what that
archetype represents.

Myth and religion shape how these archetypes are woven together and,
in doing so, mould our minds and embed invaluable artifacts and
wisdom. It is lunacy to deny the capacity of legend and art as
formative, psychologically and sociologically. Though, I'm leaving
myself wide open to the argument of whether one should have have the
choice over how their minds develop, instead of developing in accord
with religion or myth. Yet, at the age where myth has the greatest
effect, people are too young to understand that choice. By
disregarding religion's formative capacity or repudiating it
throughout your culture, we preclude ourselves from many of the
benefits. Just to clarify, I'm not saying that everyone should be
indoctrinated to a specific religion. I am making the argument that
organized attempts to subdue religion are misguided because there is
tremendous social value to be obtained from the embedded wisdom of
dozens of generations.

#### Let Me Rephrase My Argument

> If you would dismantle religion, then what other vehicle would you
> suggest? How many generations of knowledge have been embedded in the
> content and culture surrounding it?

### Politically Motivated Atheism...

It's horrifying to see a concerted effort to discredit religion and
its institutions over the course of several generations. This is an
effort to disempower the common man by robbing him of the collective
knowledge and wisdom accumulated over generations. By studying and
adhering to a belief system and code of ethics established by
religion, one augments an ability to build a resilient livelihood. In
anticipation of an unprecedented storm, the man, woman or family who
built the strongest house can rest assured that his/her family will
sleep at night.

To disempower religion and its institutions is not simply negligent.
It degrades the tools and social networks that help families support
each other. And by disempowering religion, you are actually
disempowering family and local community. It is an assault on the
resilience of social fabric supporting individuals, families and
communities.

Yes, these institutions and belief systems are vulnerable to
abuse. No, religious institutions are not perfect, but neither could
be anything created by man. To their credit, the propensity for
benefit is immeasureable to acclaimed problems.

### Foundations for Belief Systems

While atheism is not science and vice versa, we all have a need to
explain the world around us.  And I'm going to assume that, if atheism
is defined as "a lack of belief system," that an athiest likely seeks
out the sciences to understand their world.

Belief systems based on science and the institutions built around them
also have flaws and vulnerabilities.  The set of knowledge from which
other beliefs are extrapolated -- the basis -- depends on individual
knowledge and varies widely.  There is also dissonance between what is
accepted by the establishment, the individuals within it and sets of
those people.

Science today is completely different from science a decade ago.
Furthermore, both to the establishment and the individuals, the
knowledge sets forming each basis are constantly shifting to include
new information, both a strength and a flaw of science.  By
understanding the dissonance, some groups can choose to suppress
information that would lead other groups to wildly different
conclusions from each of their bases.

Another problem is that it becomes more complex to discover and manage
information about the belief systems of others, since you have to
assert what another individual knows to imagine the related beliefs
they might hold.  Which, I guess, is just true about life in general.
But it means if a religion forms the core of someone's belief systems,
instead of science, there is less propensity for variation and fewer
assertions required to pick up on how someone views the basics. Today,
people obviously need to deal with both, but it's interesting to
observe how wildly different the core of these belief systems behave.
Another difference from science is that religions are more likely to
form a basis for how a person views the world and their relationship
to it.

One last difference is that, for the most part, the knowledge that
forms a religion's basis won't change. This makes them more
susceptible to changing cultural conditions than science, which can
adapt. Yet, it also makes a person's basis formed from a religion a
bit easier to understand. They are likely to share much of that basis
with other believers. Or they could; obviously it's best not to label
anyone. Every person is an individual. And I feel like I should note
that it's incredibly shitty to contort someone's religious based views
against them. If I have ever done that to you, I am so incredibly
sorry.

Because the belief systems extrapolated from a basis can rapidly
change in many ways upon the introduction of new knowledge, it's
complex to predict how those beliefs will change. If you can reliably
do so, you can capture opportunity and reduce risk. If you can
control how information is published, disseminated or interpreted, you
can control how opportunity and risk are signaled within the
system. Larger religious organizations suffer some of the same flaws
as well, where people try to acquire power.  Both science and religion
can be misused, yet I think science has the propensity for being
misused in subtle, hard to control ways.

### Atheism Is An Ideology

Atheism has a myriad of philosophic consequences for ethics, morality
and public policy. The conclusions stemming from atheism include that
it is unfair to base policy decisions on religion and that it is
misguided to judge others on religious beliefs (hypocritical for some
atheists).  These consequential beliefs are reached solely by
believing that there is no god.  Quite simply, atheism is an ideology.

But, if you would argue that "atheism is the absence of any beliefs,"
I would say that is false.  Atheism requires the belief that there are
no god(s) -- this is a belief in itself.  Therefore, regardless of the
philosophic conclusions that one may reach from this single belief,
atheism is still a belief system.

And a very shifty belief system at that.  Since atheism attests that
because it is composed of no beliefs, the philosophy of atheism
appears to be irreproachable.  This would make atheism moreso the
inversion of a religion.  A religion where the the handful of
adherents seek to dismantle, disempower and destroy all other
religions, while maintaining rhetorical invulnerability through
statements like "atheism is not a religion," "atheism is not an
ideology," and "atheism is not a belief system."

### &#x2140; From Deconstruction to Demoralization

And after zealot-level atheists have dismantled other religions, they
do not replace it with anything, for they do not and cannot understand
the value of religion. This is disheartening, since it is so capable
of accumulating and propagating transgenerational wisdom.  Atheism
completely lacks those mechanisms. So does science, outside the
educational system, which is specialized. This corrodes some cultures
that blindly march on, oblivious to the successive demoralization of
each generation. They see it all around them:

#### &#x2285; People are easily distracted from their dreams and goals

#### &#x2285; People are quicker to give up on long-term relationships

#### &#x2285; They form weaker bonds with their families

#### &#x2285; Friendships become more superficial

#### &#x2285; Communication with others becomes shallow

#### &#x2285; They avoid planning for the future out of fear or thoughtlessness

#### &#x2285; With technology, they seek to escape what they don't understand

#### &#x2285; As people drift apart, they become more fearful of each other

#### &#x2285; Friendship and family is commoditized and can easily be replaced

#### &#x2285; They become drawn to influential people with quick benefit

#### &#x2285; They can't cope when it gets tough or think to ask

#### &#x2285; They are less likely to help others in need or care

(Yes, this piece is fairly opinionated)

We're approaching the extremes of Nietzche's baseless society haunted
by nihilism. God has been declared dead for some time. We're seeing a
huge shift in culture and IMO it is incredibly negative. Many people
might not consider me to be the most moral person, depending on their
definition of morality, yet I don't think you could find anyone that
could say I'm unethical.

The major world religions are waning away and influence to science,
which seems much more capable of demonstrating truth and mastery over
the world. Maybe God really did die -- but people faintly feel
something missing, but can't really put their finger on it. By 2030 or
2040 it will bounce back and become more influential than it has in a
hundred years. The next generation of ours will wake up and understand
that their unknown missing piece is cultivation of their connection to
God or to spirituality or to the Atman.

## Part 2: On Atheisms

The next section I'll briefly describe religion's role in providing
the long-term cultural stability which fermented the Renaissance and
the Age of Enlightenment in the West. I'll describe why society needs
the notion of a set of inviolable tenets, which restrain the worst and
even the best of mankind. Then I'll refute several of atheism's common
arguments against religion.

