---
title: "If I Had the Chops to Write My Daedalian Magnum Corpus"
categories: "blog"
tags: "philosophy literature"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "Dico ergo quia non loquimur de talibus naturaliter possibilibus sed
  miraculose possibilibus quod in uno parvo spacio et loco ut in loco
  grani milii vel sub eius magnitudine Deus posset formare valde magnum
  corpus, scilicet maius quam sit mundus et verum est quod illud corpus
  non esset in illo parvo corpore vel loco circumscriptive et
  commensurabiliter."
---

### Elements of Literature

#### &#x2605; [Themes](#themes)

#### &#x2605; [Form](#form)

#### &#x2605; [Plot](#plot)

#### &#x2605; [Characters & Relationships](#characters-and-relationships)

#### &#x2605; [Style](#plot)

I love taking the time to stop and think about literature I read and
movies I've seen and virtual worlds that I've explored. I love
thinking about how profoundly different works have affected me. And it
seems that there's always something else to pick up when I take the
time to rexplore them.

Why was it that these works affected me so much at that point in my
life and how would they have affected me later on?  When I first read
that chapter or saw that scene, what was I thinking? What should I
have noticed and why didn't I notice it? What compelled me to finish
that RPG, but not that one? Was the story not as compelling or was
the pace not consistent enough? Why was I so drawn to that character
and how did my own thoughts about him/her change as the character
developed? What was it that drew me in at first and why? If I was to
create my own work, how could I recreate that magical moment?

Over time, your answers to questions like these will change as you
learn more about life.  So if you do not capture your reactions
authentically and as they happen, you're likely to lose touch with
that part of yourself that you embodied at that time.

## What Is Your Message?

Do you ever feel like you're carrying a message that no one else has
heard?  Do you feel the weight of that on your shoulders?  Do you feel
that if you didn't write something down, that it might be months or
years before you have the same thought?  That it might be some time
before anyone else is viewing a subject through that particular
perspective?  Perhaps, months, years or maybe never? ... Though,
obviously, not every thing I think of is revolutionary

### What Is Your Story & Why?

Do you feel that your experiences would allow you to craft a message
that's meaningful to people from all walks of life?  How well do you
really know people?  Are there really "types" of people or is each
person their own brilliant, perfect self?  What makes them laugh, cry
or come to understand something they couldn't before?  Better yet,
what if your story allowed someone to understand things that, for the
first time, they had been missing out on some crucial aspect of life?
Or that perhaps everyone has.

### Extrapolating and Intermeshing from Core Ideas

How do you take a core idea and extrapolate it into a novel or script?
I've found that this would be very challenging and the resulting
material would seem stilted around one topic -- it'd feel like a
painting that just encapsulated one idea. Much more artistic is the
painting that provides enough to stimulate exploration of a set of
ideas. It's not so straightforward that the art is ... well, I'd
rather not elaborate on every detail of these things.

The point is, you'll be much more successful if you merge a few
incomplete ideas. For some genres, content of mixed origination glued
together roughly is perfect, as it adds a characteristic style to a
work or a series of collaborations. The imperfections are what will
lead to opportunities for improvement and thus creativity.

I hope to describe how to use elements and methods of this creative
process to facilitate the development of higher-quality, more
meaningful writing in myself, as well as my readers.

Most people view things through a common lens because they haven't
dove in to explore their true nature. People who understand the inner
workings or true nature of some tech, some medium, some idea, they see
beyond the surface and into its mechanics. For them, this subject is
marvelously more sophisticated, yet wondrously simple.  It cannot be
rigidly defined and neither can its potential. To them, it is
difficult to state something is or is not possible because they see
multifarious solutions.

So I get distracted because my mind is too populated with connections
to random things.  If my mind were a graph and whatever I was looking
at or thinking of were our current node, then on average, I would have
dozens as many edges to others than a normal person. Several factors
contribute to this: I know tons of useless trivia, I tend to examine
various trivial aspects of things and I try to correlate more than the
average person.

And so I tend to pursue a lot of tangents and it's a bit harder to
control where my mind goes, but that's actually a strength.  If I
rigidly focused my mind and ignored all the fleeting thoughts, there
would be many roads never traveled. When I explored these roads, if I
never wrote anything down, I'd never remember anything. And for the
longest time, I didn't.

## A Constructive Writing Process

If I ever felt I had the time to write something meaningful, I imagine
I'd use a kind of constructive process, involving the following:
themes, style, characters, relationships, plot elements & form.  Keep
in mind that I'm keeping this focused on literature and that I also
have mostly no idea what I'm talking about.  Here, I'll describe each
type of constructive element and later, I'll enumerate over some
specific themes that interest me personally.

<a name="themes"/>

## &#x2605; Themes &#x2605; Major & Minor

Of all the elements, the most important by far is theme.  This is
going to drive the internal dialogue of your readers and hopefully any
external discussion they have as well.  After all, art is much less so
what it is in itself and more so the sum of what it inspires in us.
There is no such thing as a "finished" work of art.  And thus, works
that doesn't drive a dialogue, works that don't make us ask new
questions or provide a new light with which to revisit old modes of
thinking, these works just don't have as much depth.  They are flat.

And for writing, the themes you choose and how you work with them,
this determines the depth of your work.  Some themes are more relevant
to some than others.  Some are played out, but might be fresh if you
provide a new lens.  There are many which seem relevant now, but whose
importance will soon fade.  These stories will likely vanish from the
pages of time.

Thus, it's important to choose timeless and universally relevant
themes that everyone can value or appreciate. But what is universally
relevant and what is timeless?  As modern civilization continues to
progress towards the unknown at an exponential rate, it seems that
less and less would be timeless.  Or maybe some works will acquire an
air of timelessness as examples of the rapid development through the
21st century.  Perhaps novelty is better preserved with exponential
development.

A list of themes I would like to explore will be enumerated in part
two.

<a name="form"/>

## &#x2605; Form &#x2605; Major & Minor

What's the overall form of the plot?  This is a major dependency of
all the elements. That is, changing the form will necessitate
reworking many aspects of everything else.

Your story isn't just the collection of facts from the plot. It's so
much more than that. It's a journey that your readers will embark on
and no reader will ever set out on the same journey. Readers will form
very different interpretations of your work and you'll find many
readers whose reactions to elements of your work will cluster
together.  As the artist, it's your task to understand how those
various clusters will form and why. In other words, in what different
ways will people react to the same scene or character and why?

Choosing the appropriate form can either make or break a work.  The
form is the story, as the reader or viewer experiences it.  This needs
to be well thought out and strategically applied to your work.  By
structuring the form of your work, you can magnify the reader's
emotional responses to some elements.  Done well enough and you'll
find consumers want to re-experience your work, which is a far more
accurate measure of validation and valuation than the score on their
review, if they write one.

Some plot elements can have a much more dramatic effect if some of the
ending is revealed up to the reader up front -- think Star Wars. This
totally changes how a reader will experience your story.  Instead of
looking forward into the complete unknown, your reader knows the
ending, or at least parts of it. There are these waypoints that must
be connected sometime in the future. Having these kinds of waypoints
will cause someone to be more invested in your story because their
mind is going to constantly reevaluate how the stories current
elements must connect to some events in the future.

And so, their mind is always trying to connect the dots. This is just
generally true with the human mind: it speciallizes in this.  So give
it some far off points to extrapolate to and it will kick our mind
into high gear.  In particular, it will engage the reader or the
viewer's imagination.  And this is much more interesting to our
subconscious mind, since it reconstructing the path from our current
place in the plot to the future is a problem that is at least
partially resolvable.  That is, as opposed to just iteratively
appending more plot details onto the existing storyline. There's not
much work there for the subconscious mind.

Also, there are more advanced examples of form used in the Star Wars
trilogy, which is a ringed plot. It's a trilogy of trilogies, began
in the middle of a ringed story. The "ringed" form is well known in
literature and Star Wars is like a meta-form of that.

<a name="plot"/>

## &#x2605; Plot &#x2605; Major & Minor

As you decide on major and minor themes, you should begin thinking of
major and minor plot elements that would help you expose them.

It's the intersection of form and plot that allows for plausible
alternate explanations to a storyline.  Again, this is a priceless
tool for getting your reader to engage and invest in your story. It's
going to cause them to reevaluate the characters, again and
again. Placing your characters in situations where the character
misunderstands them and makes mistakes and getting the reader to
misevaluate the storyline: that is powerful storytelling that can
cause the reader to reevaluate what they know of their own reality, as
well as your fantasy. It's especially important to look for form and
plot that allow for plausible alternate explanations.  So writers need
to be capable of identifying duplicitous scenarious or portraying
scenarious in such a way that allows for duplicitous explanations.

There are generic kinds of events and events that are genericizeable
which can allow a writer to enumerate reusable scenarios for minor
plot events.  And major plot twists as well.  These are like tropes
and using the same ones over and over can be a bit annoying. Yet, some
tropes are incredibly useful for exploring specific themes, like
betrayal.  You might even say that a particular trope would be
required for exploring some themes.  In order to explore epic
betrayal, you need a character that betrays another in an epic way.
And to explore that to the full effect, you need minor events in your
story that establish a trusting relationship between the two.

Category theory is actually great for kind of genericizing plot events
or stories from real life. You can take some memories or stories
you've heard and just abstract the characters or combinate & reapply
the same "type" of scenario with different characters until you find
something interesting. But being able to identify those kinds of
compelling events and types of events from real life and from other
stories is the skill here. What types of events would be most
interesting when applied to different characters and situations.

In terms of getting an AI algorithm to write literature or movies, one
challenge is managing the interweaved web of dependencies between
major/minor plot scenarios. And the big challenge is to get an
algortihm to weave those events together for some higher purpose that
allows the work to inspire in its readers a discussion about life
itself.

<a name="characters-and-relationships"/>

## &#x2605; Characters & Relationships &#x2605; Major & Minor


- "three dimensional" characters: more category theory (pullbacks).
  - don't just describe the events and details at the surface.
  - instead, they mix one of two strategies: they strategically
    filter what is described at the surface and use that to allow you
    to imagine what must lie below.
  - or they attempt to directly describe the thoughts and inner
    feelings of the characters, to describe how a reader would
    perceive the surface details.
- anonymyzed characters:
  - merger of characters with type theory & category theory
  - for some events, start out with just the roles you need to fill
    - then later on, decide on whether that role should be tied to
      an existing character, or just another nameless minion
  - this allows you to be flexible in composing events/characters
    together without creating massively intertwined dependencies
    in plot
- character archetypes and traits. the "tsundere"
- character development: how to expose development to readers
  through events.  how to stress the character development without
  having it detract from more important points of the story.
  - will your readers honestly even notice that your character has
    changed?  what will draw their attention without expository
    dialogue?
  - IMO, most stories are too short for anything but the main 3 or 4
    characters to demonstrate meaningful character development.  but
    it's great when this is pulled off so that it's coherent.

- NOTE: also explain how and why sequels usually don't stand up to
  the first works.
  - (maybe move to the section on form)
  - it's mostly because the author didn't have another
    direction planned for the work.
  - the stories for the sequels feel "tacked on." they are
    self-contained and don't intertwine.
  - at the same time, it's a bit cheesy when there's a bit written
    into the story and you're like "oh i see where they want to make
    this a trilogy."  either way, the premise of subsequent work
    has changed the work.  planning the sequels out is preferable
    for sure though.
    - but sometimes, a story should begin and end. and that's it.
      you've explored the world.  time for a new story.
  - how to construct a story without "planning on the sequel." there
    is another way, through a certain kind of formlessness.  by
    constructing a story and adding enough extraneous material such
    that the original work feels both homogenous and heterogenous.
    - think of one of those automatic contextual photoshop brushes.
      how does it work?  it checks the surrounding area and fills in
      pixels so nothing stands out too much.  this is a bit similar.
  - also, when you mixin enough extraneous heterogenous detail into
    your story, it feels natural.  and when that's not there, it
    feels constricted, just barebones plot.

<a name="style"/>

## &#x2605; Style &#x2605; Major & Minor

you should be experienced enough as a writer (or artist or poet,
whatever) to consciously embed elements of style throughout it's
entire process of creation.  this way, the style you apply seems
uniformly embedded in the work, instead of a late idea or something
that requires a ton of edits and reworks.


## Part Two - Specific Themes
