---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: A Lighthouse in a Storm"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "Indispensible Foundations to Mercurial Cultural Deconstruction"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
So, religion is a perfect tool for helping to counter this cultural
deconstruction and generational stratification, but it can only be
helpful if large enough sets of people in our culture share belief
systems. In particular, they must share those beliefs which form the
basis of the rest of their beliefs. The notion of a basis was
discussed in the first section of this series.  Where the bases formed
primarily from scientific knowledge are always shifting, those formed
by and tied to religion are much more constant.  In this way, elements
of religion act as metacultural fixpoints in the psyche of
believers."
---

{:center: style="text-align: center;"}

#### &#x2605; [God Is Not Dead](/posts/2016-06-01-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-1-God-is-not-dead.html) &#x2605; [Of God and Atheisms](/posts/2016-06-05-im-not-religious-im-spiritual-2-of-God-and-atheisms.html) &#x2605; A Lighthouse in a Storm &#x2605;
{: center}

As we hurtle towards relative omniscience and relative omnipotence,
isn't it important for us to discuss what makes humanity or any group
worthy of wielding this power? If the primary belief system dictating
policy is atheism and, thus, based on being the absence of any belief
system, how can we ensure that whatever elements are in control of
technology will be reigned in by any set of rules? If we do not have
this discussion now, we will *never* have the opportunity. We need to
be confident that not only is there an ethical framework, but that it
is beyond insurmountable.  Moreover, we must rest assured that there
is a system of propagating such a framework, so that our children do
not find themselves overwhelmed by forces they can't understand, while
disconnected from the cultural paths which led there.

### Mercurial Cultural Deconstruction

Elements of our culture will shift beneath us as we stand transfixed
in a stuporous awe of the lightning-fast transition of other cultural
elements.  In other words, our attention will be in the wrong place
and we won't see potential problems until they have saturated the
younger generations.  Each decade of youth will be increasingly
detached from other decades. The cultural spectra that emerge will
continue to diversify and detach until each distinct, detached "color"
in the spectra is but a year or two apart.

### Cultural Spaghettification

It's like the spaghettification experienced when falling into a black
hole: the closer you get, the more you get pulled apart, until you get
stretched incredibly thin, like spaghetti.  And such is the effect
that the singularity will have on each age group in our culture, which
is why the singularity might be metaphorically viewed as a
metaphysical black hole. This leads to the *Generation Rift*
phenomenon, described in
[The Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html).

### Generational Stratification

So, religion is a perfect tool for helping to counter this cultural
deconstruction and generational stratification, but it can only be
helpful if large enough sets of people in our culture share belief
systems. In particular, they must share those beliefs which form the
*basis* of the rest of their beliefs. The notion of a basis was
discussed in the first section of this series.  Where the bases formed
primarily from scientific knowledge are always shifting, those formed
by and tied to religion are much more constant.  In this way, elements
of religion act as *metacultural fixpoints* in the psyche of
believers.

### Metacultural Fixpoints

Without sets of archetypical fixpoints shared across large groups of
our society, without regard to class or ethnicity, we are going to
quickly find ourselves lost in the future. The basis for belief
systems formed by science is completely detached from anything
permenant. Like Ouroboros, it always cyclicly consuming itself: newer
beliefs in the basis superceeding older beliefs and the resulting
belief structure representing science's extrapolated sphere of
knowledge is constantly recalculated, then distributed. While this
process continues to accelerate, then the costs to cultural stability
will increase just as steadily. So we need these fixpoints to ground
our culture in something.

### Differential Singularity

We risk ending up dealing with a phenomenon I refer to as differential
singularity. This draws on the differential created in belief systems
as new discoveries in science are propagated outward to policy makers
and everyone else. In part one, I argued that there is significant
opportunity to abuse the differential and time delay here to profit
financially and politically.  However, as progress towards the
singularity increases this differential only grows wider.  We risk
creating a situation where the people currently in control of the
technology seal themselves off from threats to their power.

At some point, unless access to information is permitted, there is a
huge opportunity for the power-hungry to abuse this differential.
There are specific technologies which magnify the rate at which new
discoveries occur: this is the nature of the singularity.  On the
other hand, many of these technologies are incredibly dangerous and,
thus, the desire to wall these techs off is justified.  It is because
of this that the likelihood that a small faction of people would abuse
the differential singularity is all the more likely: because if they
did, who would know about it?

### I'm Still Searching

While I claim that religion is needed because of it's capacity to
shape the minds of the next generation, I haven't provided or accepted
such a vehicle myself.  I don't believe humanism is quite capable in
this regard and I feel like atheism completely disregards the value of
such a vehicle and our need for one.  However, I don't intend on
specifying how such a thing should be constructed for my own belief
system, since it is mine and mine alone.

To clarify, I am not trying to specify the "correct" religion or
specify the correct set of beliefs that should form the basis of a
religion or even specify that there could be such a "correct" set of
beliefs. To specify, because I don't believe it is possible for me or
anyone else to fully comprehend the entity which represents my
definition of God, I don't believe it's possible for anyone to state
that their set of beliefs is the superior belief system. I do not
intend to force my opinions and beliefs on others.  Please understand
my motivation behind writing this is sincere concern that we may find
ourselves unprepared for the future, regardless of which class,
ethnicity or religion we are part of.

# &#x0B87;&#x0BD0;&#x0E5B;

### &#x13EB; [The Golden Rule](#the-golden-rule)

### &#x13EB; [We Are All One](#we-are-all-one)

### &#x13EB; [Negative & Neutral & Positive](#negative-neutral-positive)

### &#x13EB; [The Unknown](#the-unknown)

### &#x13EB; [The Intangible](#the-intangible)

### &#x13EB; [Find Your Genius](#find-your-genius)

### &#x13EB; [Timelessness](#timelessness)

### &#x13EB; [Emphasizing Potential](#emphasizing-potential)

### &#x13EB; [Help Others Grow](#help-others-grow)

### &#x13EB; [Light & Dark, Good & Evil](#light-dark-good-evil)

### &#x13EB; [Awareness of Evil](#awareness-of-evil)

### &#x13EB; [Everything Has a Purpose](#everything-has-a-purpose)

### &#x13EB; [Relative & Absolute](#relative-and-absolute)

### &#x13EB; [The Empty Mind](#the-empty-mind)

### &#x13EB; [Willpower & Self-Mastery](#willpower-and-self-mastery)

### &#x13EB; [Know What You Want](#know-what-you-want)

### &#x13EB; [Keep Your Eye on the Ball](#keep-your-eye-on-the-ball)

### &#x13EB; [Nature of Mind](#nature-of-mind)

### &#x13EB; [Neurological Empathy](#neurological-empathy)

### &#x13EB; [Meditation](#meditation)

### &#x13EB; [Always Keep Searching](#always-keep-searching)

### &#x13EB; [Never Stop Stopping](#never-stop-stopping)

### &#x13EB; [Independence](#independence)

### &#x13EB; [Knowledge of Self](#knowledge-of-self)

### &#x13EB; [Karma](#karma)

### &#x13EB; [Devine Connection](#devine-connection)
 &#x2605;
### &#x13EB; [Wisdom of All](#wisdom-of-all)

### &#x13EB; [Prismatic Perspective](#prismatic-perspective)

### &#x13EB; [Judgement & Forgiveness](#judgement-and-forgiveness)

### &#x13EB; [Providing Purpose](#providing-purpose)

### &#x13EB; [Believe in Yourself](#believe-in-yourself)

### &#x13EB; [Metapersona &#x1F52D;&#x1F3AD;&#x1F50D;](#metapersona)

### &#x13EB; [You're the Hero](#youre-the-hero)

### &#x13EB; [Circumstance](#circumstance)

### &#x13EB; [Environment](#environment)

### &#x13EB; [Axiomatic Waypoints](#axiomatic-waypoints)

### &#x13EB; [Asymptotic Evaluation](#asymptotic-evaluation)

### &#x13EB; [Moving the Lampposts](#moving-the-lampposts)

### &#x13EB; [Self-Similarity](#self-similarity)

### &#x13EB; [Humility](#humility)

Just wanted to summarize over those, although that list is by no means
complete. And please let me emphasize: I in no way intend or intended
to create something that other people would follow. Dear God, no. That
would be irresponsible. I simply wanted to understand as much about
the world as I could, including world religions, though I'm
embarrassed to say I'm a complete novice.

And I'm ashamed to associate with any religion at this point,
honestly. I couldn't hope to touch something pure without getting it
dirty, whether it's Buddhism or Christianity or whatever. And while I
clearly see the value of religion and hold it's waning influence
partially responsible for many of the problems we have in the world
today, I find it difficult to defend because I haven't strongly
embraced any religion. I can't exactly use my interpretation of bible
verses as rhetorical defense because who am I to interpret something
like that, if I don't claim strong personal belief.

<a name="the-golden-rule"/>

## [&#x2182; The Golden Rule](#the-golden-rule)

We should act as though we are all one and that to harm another is to
harm oneself. IMO, the Ten Commandments and Noahide laws are rules that
someone who truly respects another would not break.  Not because they
are clearly stated rules, but because someone who equinanimously
informs their action with empathy and awareness just wouldn't break
those rules.  Such a person's ethical rules for action might not
map up one-to-one with the Ten Commandments, but still, their actions
will mostly line up with them.

<a name="we-are-all-one"/>

## [&#x2182; We Are All One](#we-are-all-one)

If we truly are all one, then harming another person is equivalent to
harming oneself.  This is why I try to extend the Golden Rule to
perceiving situations and interactions as though I am literally the
other person or people involved.  I will try to see the world through
their eyes. This and the Golden Rule are really the most important
aspects -- and I'm not sure that these are two separate things.
Almost everything else could be dropped or redefined.

At that point, one needs to decide on relative or absolute morality:
relativism vs. moral universalism of Kant.  This requires
universalability, which dictates that for an action to be permissable,
it must apply equally to every situation and every person.  It is
nearly impossible, but incredibly admirable to adhere to Kant's
philosophy, as it almost entirely nullifies your space of potential
actions.

Also, it is incredibly hard to practice empathetic behavior if people
warp the perception of you, so that you're a pariah. It's not an
excuse to limit one's interactions with others or restrict empathy,
but it is really hard to practice compassion or provide values to
others when one has no income and practically nothing to give.

Furthermore it's incredibly hard to see the world through someone's
eyes when they see you as a miserable useless piece of shit and they
never intend on allowing others to see you in an honest light.  Why
would I want to view their perspective, when all they intend is to
limit me, no matter what I do?  Of course, it is still crucial to try
because you can only connect with someone by empathizing with them.

<a name="negative-neutral-positive"/>

## [&#x2182; Negative, Neutral & Positive](#negative-neutral-positive)

Obviously, I miss the mark on compassion and the Golden Rule quite
often. It is one thing to do no harm and seek neutrality with the
world. For the most part, this is easy for me. But it is another thing
entirely to contribute to the world around you. Just because you don't
harm another doesn't mean you're actively giving back.  If you don't
expend time, energy, and resources contributing positively to the
people around you, you'll find yourself pretty isolated.  If someone
seeks to strip you of your resources to rob you of your capability to
positively influence people around you, this is incredibly depressing.

<a name="the-unknown"/>

## [&#x2182; The Unknown](#the-unknown)

There is this mystical, ineffable force that pervades every fragment
of the universe. It is powerful and we cannot ever hope to fully
understand it, but it's far from fruitless to try. This is the basis
for the connection between all of us, our karma, and the direction of
our individual fates. I explain this a little better in this article
on the [Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html),
although the language is a bit dense.

<a name="the-intangible"/>

## [&#x2182; The Intangible](#the-intangible)

The intangible is as real as the tangible. The beliefs of others are
as real as the chair I'm sitting in. The intangible extends to
metaphysical concepts beyond those based on information processed by
conscious, physical beings. There is consciousness everywhere;
everything is connected. And there are intangible metaphysical
artifacts pervading space and time. They might be metaphysical and
thus, invisible and intangible, but the effects on our lives are very
real.

Some of these will never change -- and it could be argued that any
which are not perminant can be totally & summarily defined in terms of
those that are permanent. Math is such a universal, metaphysical
object, which cannot ever change by its nature and from which all
other things can be defined.  Therefore, they are timeless. Our
inescapable fates are defined in terms of the intangible and nothing
can escape it's reach.

<a name="find-your-genius"/>

## [&#x2182; Find Your Genius](#find-your-genius)

In addition to the Golden Rule, we need to think outside our current
time and place.  This means considering how people lived in the past,
as well as how they could live in the future. We should think of our
possible future selves as already existing and act accordingly.
Sometimes it's better imagine situations through the lense of our
idealized selves than from within the confines of our present
situation.

> If I were already the person I wanted to be, how would I handle this
> situation differently. That person that built my dreams, what would
> he or she have done to get there?

The Romans had their own concept of genius, which was like the design
essence that lay beyond our psyche: it was like our individual star in
the metaphysical sky. It resembles this concept of the idealized
self. When we are young, we should develop that kernel of knowledge
that allows us to best decide what we want to do with our lives and
helps us identify the pieces of knowledge which are most useful. It
helps if our parents can be very involved in our lives or that we at
least have some mentor who can fuel this development.  Our minds are
most pliable then and we have the most opportunity for them most
growth. Yet, it is unfortunate our time spent at the height of our
potential is precisely when we have a minimal understanding of the
world, preventing us from best planning how to invest that potential.

<a name="timelessness"/>

## [&#x2182; Timelessness](#timelessness)

I find it an invaluable tool to simulate ancient models of thought. It
helps to brainstorm other ways of viewing the world or of trying to
reach the same idea. I will think hard about problems to without
cheating by applying today's knowledge or technology. For example,
trying to understand how Arabian mathematicians understood algorithms
when they originally developed the concept. Or trying to think through
whether or not the ancient greeks would have been able to predict this
or that. If so, how would they have been able to predict these
conclusions. It's a useful tool, but can easily lead to unfounded
inferences, so it's important to keep that in mind.

So, for example, it would be possible for people to foresee that
overpopulation was the inevitable result of population growth, given
two things: exponential growth and the spherical, and thus limited,
shape of the earth. In fact, Ancient people were all to familiar with
constraints on their life imposed by overpopulation and the effects it
had on society.  Their building heights were limited to a few stories
and their lack of technology meant that food production was
limited.

Further still, they may have been able to at least imagine how things
would unfold in future events by specifying what those limitations
were that inhibited their growth: human/time/energy cost of food
production, transportation, communication, disease and the
like. Simply by enumerating these, then assuming that technology would
resolve them, and then iterating through scenarios derived from
combinations of sets where specific limitations were removed, they
could foresee social changes and events to unfold at some point in the
future. Or they could at least try. For example, if you assumed that
the time required for communication drops to zero or that the
bandwidth approaches infinite, you could surmise how that may change
society. If you assume disease could be controlled, then you might
surmise a large city with a democracy like Athens might thrive beyond
a specific population growth instead of becoming doomed by
epidemic. Understanding that cities hosting more than a specific
population size determined by the likelihood of catastrophe would
change the nature of long-term geopolitical influences: people would
lose interest in rural life and power structures in cities would
become more efficient.

Yet, there are many things which are complicated by our way of life.
In many ways, ancient people could foresee much more accurately than
we can comprehend. We don't have enough time to think the same
thoughts and, in so many instances, we assume that we already have the
answers and never bother to think through these questions ourselves.
The sturdy foundations of Western and Eastern philosophy are a
blessing and a curse, as all these great debates and discussions have
been resolved. We can learn about it, but most of us never have any a
postieri development of ideas which are structured independently of
those foundations. I think there is tremendous value in developing our
own thoughts, but because it's so difficult to do so once we're
exposed to superior means of framing philosophical questions, we never
have that chance.

And we perceive these ancient people to be ignorant because they lacked
technology when actually our way of life almost completely clouds our
vision and our minds.  We deal with so much irrelevant information and
non-sense. Our lives are so structured so that we cannot see beyond
our blinders. In some cases, it is impossible to reach many of the
same insights, which ancient people might consider common sense.

In fact, this is one idea behind the area of Buddhist eschatology
dealing with Maitreya.  Maitreya will appear in the future when most
people are disconnected with the dharma and he will achieve
enlightenment. After a certain point, people will lead incredibly long
lives and they will completely lose the ability to become enlightened
for a very long time. I want to refrain from making too many
conclusions about this, but to me, this means we are disconnected from
enlightenment because of some aspect of our culture or lives at that
time. Or, at least, that our ability to reach true enlightenment or
something like it can be significantly impaired by our way of life.

<a name="emphasizing-potential"/>

## [&#x2182; Emphasizing Potential](#emphasizing-potential)

I believe that we interact best with others when we see them for their
potential, instead of their faults. We shouldn't limit another's
capacity in our mind, through judgement or however. Too often we
develop some rigid preconcieved notion of how someone "is" and we
forget to think of them in terms of how they could be.

This has happened to every one of us: someone sets their expectation
of us and they treat us like that and we fall in line exactly with
their expectations. Example: someone is treated like they might be a
thief, they're hurt by the assumption and so, in response, they steal
something. The example's a bit extreme. Another common example
surrounds mental illness: someone is labelled as depressed or bipolar
or schizophrenic or quick to anger. And the reinforcement of the label
itself is responsible for reinforcing behaviors which contribute to
the label.

Obviously, if you find yourself in these kinds of situation, you
shouldn't give in and allow other people to define what you are.  That
is weak, but it is all too easy to give in. The harder people try to
label you, the louder and more vocal they are, and the more uniform
their assertions, the easier it becomes to give in.

Too often, I have allowed my silence and inaction to lead me to
becoming defined by others, and honestly, I am so fucking tired of
that.  Do not try to label me or define me or tell me what I believe
or explain to others what I think. I define myself. I have my own
beliefs. I think my own thoughts. And no one should assume they have
the right to ANY of that.

I have sacrificed so much in order to never give in, in order to
openly support drug legalization, so I will be damned if I let someone
else define me or speak for me. Though, honestly, letting someone else
speak for me probably wouldn't be too bad. However, I have been
victimized in the workplace by a handful of people and I just sat idly
by, not wanting to say anything wrong or worried that I'd sink to
their level. And I just sat there, while they made my life miseraable;
they ruined my life and I just sat there!  They obliterated any
confidence anyone had in my in my workplace and they did so in a
calculated, strategic manner.

And so my point is: do not find yourself in this position.  Define
yourself. Speak up. Be independent. Think your own thoughts. Listen to
others and especially to understand how they see you.

Conversely and by corrolary, make it easier for others to define
themselves, authentically.  You can do this by providing better
information to them about how you perceive them, though not
necessarily in a direct manner. You can give them the space and
autonomy to grow. You can share anecdotes and experience that might
end up being important to how they see themselves or what they decide
to do with their career.

But always be aware of the lens you're using to view them: is this a
perspective you've constructed independently? Is it honest? Is it
helpful? If this person needs change, do they want to change? Is that
desire to change just verbal or at the conscious level? Or does it
appear that the desire for change motives a few actions or does it
permeate their actions? It's important to be realistic and keep your
goals in mind.

There was a Rick and Morty episode about this concept of envisioning
someone in terms of their potential instead of their flaws. To
summarize, Beth and Jerry go to couples therapy and end up fighting
the way they envision each other, materialized as monsters. I won't
really spoil how everything works out, but it's worth watching. It's
episode 7 of the 2nd season: Big Trouble in Little Sanchez.

<a name="help-others-grow"/>

## [&#x2182; Help Others Grow](#help-others-grow)

It's important to give back and help those around you develop skills
and opportunity. There have been quite a few situations where I've
seen those in a position of relative power attempt to prevent those
around them from fully developing. It is usually to prevent that
person from pursuing greener pastures or from becoming more valuable
to that organization or whatever. Rule #1 is *Never Outshine the
Master*, after all. That's the first rule!

It's vital to be humble and patient towards those you're serving. But
in my experience, I remember those people who contributed to my
skills, career, personal life or hobbies, especially when it seemed to
run counter to their incentives. Teaching others and being a mentor
are invaluable means to enrich your self, your organization and your
community. In a very profound way. This is one of the best ways to
develop your social network. If you have a positive influence on
someone, especially if it took significant energy over a long period
of time, then you will develop a strong connection. That person is
probably going to represent you in a positive way.

And if, for whatever reason, someone limits your ability or
opportunity for teaching others, then imagine how much that would
limit you in life! One of my greatest mistakes when trying to organize
a jamskating team when I was about 18 was my failure to realize just
how useful and rewarding it would to help other people grow. I lost so
many opportunities for growth, resulting from partly my own failure to
recognize this, paired with the fact that many of the people around me
wanted me to ultimately fail. A decade later, I found myself asking
"Why the fuck did they not suggest X or advise me about Y?" The reason
is because many of the people around me never wanted me to succeed,
but they also did not want to appear to interfere. Why? Drug
legalization. It was because I supported legalization.

Actively or passively preventing someone from giving back to others
and being a positive influence in their live is the equivalent to
topping a tree. Their social network will be so stunted later in their
life and they probably won't know what happened. Again, there's much I
could have done and it's hard to argue that this was intentional.
Maybe they were justified. Maybe they never thought to do that and
it's just a coincidence that my only protege stabbed me in the back
more times than I can count.

<a name="light-dark-good-evil"/>

## [&#x2182; Light & Dark, Good & Evil](#light-dark-good-evil)

These two concepts can each be viewed on a separate axis. Light and
Dark describe the degree to which something can be seen. Good and Evil
describe something like the morality of an action, event, person, or
piece of information. So darkness can enshroud evil actions or intent,
preventing actions from countering it, but it can equally protect
good. If some force for good can't be seen, then retains a bit of
unpredictability. Someone might "throw shade" on something or someone
to prevent it from being seen by others. This can cripple you if
you're suffering but no one realizes it because you've had your social
connections severed.

When you cast light on something, it makes it more apparent to
others. I've been serendipitously saved so many times by simply making
the right pieces of information seen. There are certain circumstances
you can avoid, just by making something known. There was very bad
experience I had in Denver, where I briefly moved in with someone who
was mentally ill. I didn't know him very well at all and I only lived
with him for 2 days before leaving. This was the most frightening
experience in my life because I already felt threatened, but I
suddenly realized that I had no friends or family who really knew
where I was. What scared me most of all was the degree to which this
guy would try to distract me when I pulled my phone out, especially
when I mentioned calling my family.

<a name="awareness-of-evil"/>

## [&#x2182; Awareness of Evil](#awareness-of-evil)

There are types of events which are much more difficult for someone to
pull off if they know other people are aware of your situation or of
certain facts. And you'll find that manipulative or abusive people
will try to threaten you into not making information known. And
perpetrators of specific crimes, especially experienced repeat
offenders will try to ascertain specific peices of information to
gauge the likelihood of problems. If you provide them specific answers
that indicate vulnerability, they might take action.

If they're clever, they won't indicate or alarm you when they're
searching for this information. *THIS ITSELF IS THE BIGGEST RED FLAG.*
It is a huge indication that something is wrong when you ascertain
that someone is trying to read pieces of information from you that
indicate vulnerability to a specific type of crime or exploit. The
degree to which they hide their intent implies their skill and
foresight, as well as the degree to which you should fear that
situation. Good memory is important here because if someone rearranges
the order in which they attempt to acquire information, it obscures
cause and effect and becomes harder to detect that someone is going to
pull one over on you.

So, in order to recognize these situations, you really have to become
aware of the kinds of crimes or ethical omissions that people might
want to commit. You need to know what would motivate someone towards
that end or in what ways someone could be compelled to commit a
crime. Understanding the process, time and materials required for such
actions is also important in understand what information someone
requires. The more time they have, the more they can obfuscate their
actions to avoid detection.  The more resources they have, the more
likely they can involve other people, meaning that now, you not only
have to worry about the information you've given to one person, but
the information that you've given to several people and you need to
know how they're connected. If you're up against a well lubricated
machine that facilitates undercover activity, then the connections
will difficult to perceive.  If you're fighting a surveillance
apparatus, then you may need to be aware that they have information
you never disclosed to anyone.  If someone has information that you
have never disclosed to anyone or they have information that you ONLY
EVER disclosed to one person, that's a major red flag.

<a name="everything-has-a-purpose"/>

## [&#x2182; Everything Has a Purpose](#everything-has-a-purpose)

It's a bit interesting that knowledge of evil is required to fight
against it. If for some reason, evil disappeared, then we would be
totally inept against it in just a few generations. So, yes,
everything has a purpose. There is a reason for everything. If you're
a Christian, this can help answer the problem of evil: why would God
create evil or allow it to exist? Yet, it doesn't completely resolve
the problem of evil.

Again, everything has a purpose. Instead of immediately disdaining
manisfestations of negativity, you can reorient your perspective by
reminding yourself that there is a purpose and reason for everything.
If you get fired, maybe you belong in another company or industry or
career path.

My personal favorite is, when you can predict someone's sequence of
actions under various circumstances, you understand that they might
fulfill a particular purpose. It can be a bit screwed up to think of
people in this way.  It's another reason why, even though one might
cultivates a great understanding of the secret motion of things and a
great awareness of the state of the world, one should not interfere.
The subtlest of actions can have extraordinary consequences.

<a name="relative-and-absolute"/>

## [&#x2182; Relative & Absolute](#relative-and-absolute)

The relative and absolute can be applied to morality, but can also be
generalized to almost anything.  Moreover, there is a continuum
between the two and neither can be completely reached.  It's best to
attune your actions to both, when possible.  It should always be
possible, but that doesn't mean it's easy.

Cohering to the relevant means you consider your relationship to your
local surroundings first, whether or not that means local in the
physical sense. Cohering to the absolute means adhering to a set of
ideas that don't change under circumstance. For morality, this means
Kant's moral universalism.

<a name="the-empty-mind"/>

## [&#x2182; The Empty Mind](#the-empty-mind)

It's peculiar, how an empty mind is so much more capable of
functioning than the conditioned mind. As tabula rasa, the empty mind
has the capacity for anything and yet is nothing. In itself it is not
very useful. Still, unlearning bad habits and untangling negative
beliefs and is incredibly challenging. So it's best to learn things
right. As you develop further, if you actively observe beginner's
mind, you can use your awareness of it to partially apply it's
benefits as you need them.

It's terrible to reinforce an anxiety you have about something, like a
type of situation or a personal behavior. It's best not to get hung up
on this stuff because it can inhibit the rest of your mind and
anxieties are self-perpetuating by nature. Some anxieties are
basically your mind overexerting itself on minor details. This can be
emotionally exhausting, but it can also deplete nutrients and the
chemical energy your brain needs to function. Just like a computer
with malware, a mind infested with negativity or one that constantly
reacts to situations with negative thoughts wastes it's resources and
runs slower. If this gets bad enough, it can lead to a runaway effect
and
[connectopathy](http://www.biologicalpsychiatrycnni.org/article/S2451-9022(16)00062-8/fulltext)
can manifest as mental illness, like schizophrenia or schizoid
personality disorder.

If you find yourself with thoughts like this, meditative activities
can be a boon for untangling the negativity in your mind.  A mind that
is calm and focused on just the right aspects of a situation works
best.

But how do you know how to embrace the emptiness of your mind if
knowing to appreciated an empty mind requires at least that knowledge
itself? What is the bare set of knowledge that one must have to
appreciate nothingness? Or to appreciate life? What set of knowledge
is necessary to most effectively utilize one's own mind? If we can
harness beginner's mind, how do we tap into that after we become an
expert in some skill? Wouldn't that require cultivating awareness of
our present moment to observe our state of mind as we experience life?
And if we are observing our own mind, then which part of our mind are
we observing? If we must focus part of our mind to observe the
machinations of the rest of our mind, then what does that imply about
the structure of our mind? And how do we observe it in totality?

Perhaps, the answer is ... . .

<a name="willpower-and-self-mastery"/>

## [&#x2182; Willpower & Self-Mastery](#willpower-and-self-mastery)

We must comprehend what motivates others and what motivates
ourselves. When we develop awareness the long-term goals of others, we
can see how they might fit into our life and we can draw on our own
network to help them. When we ascertain their short-term motivations,
we can more effectively predict their actions. When we develop a model
for their behavior and their propensity to stick to a goal or follow
short-term desire, we gain a much better understanding of their
character.

True self-mastery is the ability to want to do the things you won't
want to have to do. In other words, to trick your mind into enjoying
experiences which are otherwise unpleasant by abstracting yourself
from the more base cognitive patterns that arise from negative
or unwanted experiences, when it's something that contributes to a
goal. Aristotle wrote about this in Ethics.

The brain and mind are peculiar. They are kind of like biological
computers, but I don't believe we are just chemical robots trapped in
meatspace. Yet because our minds are computers, they operate using
programs, though the API isn't quite as direct as Twitter's. The
interface here is far more complicated.

Programs in the human mind are more like convolutions on memory,
experience and behavior, combined with short and long-term
optimization for goals. These include conscious, subconscious and
completely unconscious desires or objectives. Behind nearly every
person's behavior is a motivational force seeking some kind of
equilibrium with those goals and desires.  For some of us, we have
become well aware of what we want out of life, but many of us succumb
to hedonistic desires. For a few of us, those desires are constantly
in flux, based on our current emotional state and recent sensory
experience.

The upcoming sections on neurological empathy and the nature of mind
explain more about neurology.

<a name="know-what-you-want"/>

## [&#x2182; Know What You Want](#know-what-you-want)

Everyone wants something in life. It's very rare to find individuals
who don't want much of anything. Almost every time, inability to
manage one's desires is a bad thing and leads to tumultuous
behavior. The exception is the hermit or the devout religious
adherent: they don't desire much, but it's positive. Everyone else?
They want something from life. And you'll find, the more they want it,
the harder they're going to work to get it.  And if more people want
some specific thing, the more competition there's going to be for it.
In almost every industry or hobby, if you get close to the top, people
are different.  They try harder and some play dirty. But the trick to
winning, every time, is maintaining your own desire for your goals and
your dreams. You have to want it more. And you have to develop a
strong motivation to do what you need to do, but what you don't want
to do.

The people that work hardest and work smartest will win. The people
who want it most will keep striving to work harder and smarter. You
can't crush the human spirit.

<a name="keep-your-eye-on-the-ball"/>

## [&#x2182; Keep Your Eye on the Ball](#keep-your-eye-on-the-ball)

And it follows that one of the most effective tactics you'll find used
against you is to distract you from your goals. Or to convince you
that you want something else. This is one reason you have to decide
what you want. What's your passion? What matters to you? When you know
this, you can fight for it and you can do so without distraction or
demoralization.

If you don't people will play you against your ambivalence you'll find
yourself as the starving donkey stuck between two bales of hay, always
headed to a new goal, but never quite getting there. It's better not
to have a particular tendency for a desire than to have developed a
fortitude against that tendency. However, that willpower and fortitude
to resist desire generally is indispensible. And generally, because
those things we need to do, but don't want to do are so important to
anyone's long-term success in life, then developing a strong capacity
here is one of the most important things you can do.

<a name="nature-of-mind"/>

## [&#x2182; Nature of Mind](#nature-of-mind)

The importance of understanding our own mind's inner workings cannot
be understated. For example, the analytical mind and the emotional
mind tend to inhibit each other, at a neurological level. This means
that activating the analytical circuits -- for periods of time
exceeding, say, thirty minutes -- will cause your brain to shift the
allocation of energy and resources towards those analytical circuits.
It has been shown that this will cause the emotional functions of your
mind to be diminished to some degree. If you want to understand this
more, I would suggest taking a detailed look at neurological research
yourself.

#### [fMRI reveals reciprocal inhibition between social and physical cognitive domains](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3602121/)

This paper discusses two different neural components used in our
personal and professional lives: the *Task Positive Network* and the
*Social Network*.  The Task Positive network is activated when given
some analytic tasks, like programming, financial number crunching,
math or physics. It's part of our executive function. When it's
activated, it also blocks our other possibilities.

In particular, its activation suppresses the Social Network, which is
a component of the *Default Mode Network*. The Social Network helps
you deal with social & emotional issues. Recent studies have shown
that the TPN and the SN are almost completely independent and have
very little neural overlap. Furthermore, they suppress each other.  So
if you're focused on analytical tasks, then you are less proficient at
processing social and emotional issues, until you switch gears.
Further still, I hypothesize that is likely not efficient for your
brain to do that. And so, when you have someone at your workplace who
doesn't have to focus analytically (or effectively doesn't!) and they
spread toxic social/emotional issues, then how do you think that
contributes to the overall functioning of your teams?

And perhaps just targeting one person, who isn't very good at
social/emotional issues in the first place -- I.E. *ME* -- then guess
who's going to be struggling to perform their job *AND* suffer the
most, emotionally? If the toxic employee is trained in psychology and
compels the other employee to constantly switch from focusing on
analytical issues to emotional issues, do you think they will appear
to get much done? NO!  It will burn out their brain with stress. *AND
GODDAMIT I MEAN IT WILL LITERALLY, CHEMICALLY BURN OUT THEIR BRAIN!*
As in, lasting, permanent, chemical and neurological damage. In
particular, stress damages the hippocampus.  Enough of this -- I.E. 5+
years -- and that person might find it hard to function again, ever!

Worse still, how do you think that compelling little stazis to
psychologically torment people on a government list would affect the
economy, on a local, regional and national level? Do you think that
would benefit a struggling economy or would it be detrimental? How do
you think such regulation would affect small business? .... What
happens when small business struggles on national scale?  Isn't small
business crucial for the middle class? Isn't the middle class vital
for the prosperity of common Americans? If you support something like
this, *THEN WHO AND WHAT DO YOU STAND FOR?* If not the american
economy, *THEN WHO OR WHAT DO YOU REPRESENT?*

> If you'd like to read more about what I've personally experienced in
> the workplace, I wrote this series on
> [my](/posts/2015-02-21-workplace-bullying-part-one.html)
> [experiences](2015-02-24-workplace-bullying-part-two.html)
> with [workplace](2015-02-25-workplace-bullying-part-three.html)
> [bullying](2015-02-26-workplace-bullying-part-four.html).

Basically, resources like nutrition, ATP for energy, and preproduced
protein products are localized throughout the brain. Overexertion of
specific brain circuits will exhaust those resources. This may be
partially responsible for the effect where you can spend hours and
hours on a problem and make no progress, but take a short break or
relax with friends and suddenly you have a burst of creativy insight
because you've given those neural circuits a chance to replentish
their resources.  If we understand the causes behind effects like
these, we can engage the peculiarities of our mind for our benefit.

Another incredibly important aspect to mental functioning is blood
flow. This is why exercise is so important. Cardio increases your
heart rate and blood cycles resources in and waste out. Some of the
deeper tissue subnetworks in your organs and brain are difficult to
reach unless your body cycles blood faster. This is because those
deeper tissue subnetworks are only accessible via capillaries and I
surmise that there is a large disparity in the resource distribution
at the capillary level. Therefore, increasing your heartrate through
healthy, daily exercise is necessary to happiness and bodily function
and mental acuity. It doesn't matter how healthy you eat if your body
has trouble distributing those resources!

<a name="neurological-empathy"/>

## [&#x2182; Neurological Empathy](#neurological-empathy)

There are both negative and positive ways that we can use psychology
and neurology. We should familiarize ourselves with the negatives to
defend ourselves against it and hope that it isn't misused. We should
practice using the positive patterns of behavior that we can learn
from psychology and neurology.

#### [Examination of the neural substrates activated in memories of experiences with resonant and dissonant leaders](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1048984311001263)

Case in point: this study, where it's show that the *Hemodynamic
Network* and the *Mirror Neuron Networks* complement each other to
augment empathy.  The HN tunes us into another's emotions at a neural
level.  This relates more to perceiving their emotional state, then
the kind of simulation done by MNN, which support empathy by
"mirroring" via a kind of simulation of another's experience based on
what you know.  That is, MNN can consciously or subconsciously allow
someone to simulation themselves in another's shoes based on the
models of behavior, circumstance and life that they understand.

Simulation via MNN is great, but it leaves a few gaps, primarily
caused by cognitive bias.  If we haven't experienced enough of life to
accurately understand someone else, we might miss a few details when
we try to put ourselves in their shoes.  So we may be a bit blindsided
when they're angry or distraught in a situation, when we simulated via
MNN that they would be happy or content. In this case, the HN lets us
observe their externalized expression of their feelings. If we get a
mismatch here, then this should indicate that we need to step back and
observe the situation from another angle. That is the Hemodynamic
Network is indicating something different from the Mirror Neuron
Networks and this should invite us to investigate why.

<a name="meditation"/>

## [&#x2182; Meditation](#meditation)

Meditation or extended, focused prayer can bring calmness to your mind
and partially reset its state.

- often, meditation or relaxation or extended, focused prayer can
  bring calmness to your mind and somewhat reset it's state
  - this can alleviate anxiety or bring the clarity needed for insight
  - this same feeling can come from playing music or

<a name="always-keep-searching"/>

## [&#x2182; Always Keep Searching](#always-keep-searching)

> "I know that I know nothing" - Socrates

While remembering to appreciate the progress we've made, we must
accept that we will never fully develop, but this is exactly what
powers someone to keep striving for progress. With every personal
stride forwards, there is still progress to be made. It's not an easy
philosophy to live with -- and, if you embody this mindset, you have
to remember to take a breather every so often, just to be happy and
content with where you are.

I discuss some of these ideas in my series Epistemology, Cognition,
and Category Theory. Part one is
[an overview](/posts/2015-08-23-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-one.html)
for the rest of the series. The second part presents
[a model for the mind](/posts/2015-08-23-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-two.html). And
the third part is
[directive cognitive expansion](/posts/2015-08-26-epistemology-cognition-and-category-theory-part-three.html),
which describes how a specific skill might contribute towards your
mental faculties. This is a great series to read, if you're the kind
of person who is always trying to improve yourself. There are two or
three parts outlined, but unwritten.

...

<a name="never-stop-stopping"/>

## [&#x2182; Never Stop Stopping](#never-stop-stopping)

Too many people believe that they had an opportunity, but it's
passed. No matter how crazy something sounds or how impossible it
seems, if you believe that future to be determined, you have
relinquished control. Even when it seems like dozens of people are
stacked against some event or possibility, the second you accept it as
impossible, you are allowing fate to decide for you.

<a name="independence"/>

## [&#x2182; Independence](#independence)

We are best when we have as much power over our fate and circumstance
as possible. One should take great care if interfering in the life of
another. It's a great use of creative energy to find novel ways of
affecting someone's life without appearing to have lifted a
finger. It's magical actually.

There's a plethora of reasons to back up this wisdom. But it's in your
interest and in the interest of the person who's life you are
affecting. We're always affecting other people's lives. It is
impossible to escape this. It's like carrying a large bucket filled
with water just over the brim and making it down a mountain without
spilling a single drop. It it is incredibly difficult to avoid
interfering with causality in another person's life.

But they'll learn more from it. They'll grow more from it. And, with
skill, you can learn how to kinda pay it forward, so to speak, without
interfering with causality. So it's best for us to give without being
seen giving and those who do should be rewarded.

<a name="knowledge-of-self"/>

## [&#x2182; Knowledge of Self](#knowledge-of-self)

We should know ourselves and our world. We can't know ourselves
without learning about the world and we can't fully understand the
world without knowing about ourselves. Self-knowledge is fundamental
to understanding the world. In mathematics and particularly group and
ring theory, the existance of an identity value is essential.  In
life, self-knowledge fulfills the same purpose.  If everything can be
defined in terms of it's relationships to everything else, then
learning about ourselves is one of the best ways of learning about the
world.  And apropos that, to understand ourselves, to define
ourselves, we must learn as much about the world as
possible.

Meditation, retreat into nature, introspection, philosophy and
education are great ways to learn about ourselves. Academia, language,
culture, hobbies, recreation, life experience and stories are great
ways to learn about the world.

<a name="karma"/>

## [&#x2182; Karma](#karma)

Our actions matter, even when they are not seen. There is karma formed
from the beliefs of others, which is usually a response to your own
actions and beliefs. I also believe in universal karma, which is
outside our control or complete understanding. And even though total
comprehension of the workings of karma is impossible, we should still
seek to understand its nature, so we can be fully aware of the extent
of effect our own actions.

Karma is like the butterfly effect. The smallest butterfly can flap
it's wings in Brazil and create a chaotic tornado in Kansas. Next
thing you know, Dorothy's on a transformative journey down the yellow
brick road with three unworthy companions and a chorus full of little
people.

Studying karma is a study of causality -- I think! but I am no expert
here. It seems that you must understand yourself and others and each
person's current place in the world.  There's always a myriad of
details that follow each action. It may seem that there is no other
way, but there is always another way.  There is always a better
way. If it seems that one situation requires a course of action that
is too difficult, then we are not yet skilled enough.  We need to
observe more and reflect more before we act.

<a name="devine-connection"/>

## [&#x2182; Devine Connection](#devine-connection)

We each have a connection to the divine. This is a concept from
gnosticism. Whether this connection is viewed
as ordinary or supernatural, I believe it is there and that some are
more in tune than others. It's something we can exercise through
reflection and medititation.

It is a divine spark that can be ignited by others. It is an eternal
flame that can be that can be suppressed by others, perhaps completely
squelched. Because this divine spark emerges from universal,
metaphysical aspects of life, it is always destined to be
rediscovered, even were it to seemingly perish. For dramatic and vivid
imagery, read
[The Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html).

<a name="wisdom-of-all"/>

## [&#x2182; Wisdom of All](#wisdom-of-all)

Whether or not you believe the words of a religious text, there is
value there. The bible does not *need* to be true to add value to your
life or the lives of others. Religions are established and retain
prominence based on their ability to be valuable to people and
society. And they can only do so when they embody certain truths which
we all hold to be self-evident.

If a religion differs so starkly with reality, it will not last. This
is why state worship, the de facto religion of many regimes, does not
last. It does not embody truth and instead embodies utility.  It is
transparent and people can see through that. They will constantly
question such belief systems because, through experience, life will
bring us all to understand specific pieces of knowledge -- these
again, are universal because ... well, read
[The Nature of God](/posts/2016-05-31-the-nature-of-god.html). If you
don't understand, reread the first part of this series! If what they
learn from life differs so starkly from what is reinforced through
torment and needless sacrifice, people will stand up for themselves
and construct a paradigm that embodies the truths they discover.

I would like to know as much as I can about the major world religions.
Though I can't say one is better than another and each is fairly
comprehensive, we would be well served through their study. At the
least, we learn about what other people believe. I enjoy looking at
the links between language, culture and religion. I want to understand
as much about people as possible. I'm hopeful that we will learn more
about humanity from 10,000 BC through 2,000 BC.

<a name="prismatic-perspective"/>

## [&#x2182; Prismatic Perspective](#prismatic-perspective)

We can never truly understand how someone else feels, but we can
try. It's important to view and experience live from a multitude of
perspectives. Too many people become comfortable with their own class
or their own social strata. If you don't branch out, then you're
missing out on valuable experiences that can change you forever. Too
many of us develop a warped lens on life because we spend so much time
within our own comfort zone. People are different, but that's what
makes us shine.

<a name="judgement-and-forgiveness"/>

## [&#x2182; Judgement & Forgiveness](#judgement-and-forgiveness)

Who really has the right to judge anyone? Have you experienced what
that person as experienced? What details are you using to judge them?
It doesn't matter what walk of life that person came from, I guarantee
there is something you can learn from them. If nothing else, you can
learn from their mistakes.

We've all made mistakes. Sometimes they are accidents, sometimes risk
was too high, sometimes we just weren't aware and sometimes we are
unfairly burdened by our own mistakes. Sometimes our own guilt or
shameful conscience weighs on us more than anyone else and we become
our own worst enemy. Far too often, people make mistakes and are never
able to recover from them. It's so depressing to see someone who
believes they have no choice but to continue down the same path. The
moment you believe it's too late to change is the moment in which you
have sealed your fate, no matter how impossible it may seem. There is
always a possibility and purpose to change.

And so forgiveness is necessary to unburden us from the weight of our
own sins, whether the guilt placed on us seems to be coming from
society or it's our own conscience that won't let us move on. You
can't do much about what everyone else thinks. I've been there. The
past decade, practically, I've had people trying to push friends and
acquaintances away from me. It still hurts, but I can't do anything
except move on. And it helps to have something to look forward to,
which brings me to my next point: purpose.

<a name="providing-purpose"/>

## [&#x2182; Providing Purpose](#providing-purpose)

I've always wondered how other people did it. Some things seem so easy
for them and they're juggling a dozen times the responsibility that I
have on my plate. I've feared serious commitment for a years and I
value the freedom of will that prevents me from becoming burdened by
circumstance and obligation. I feared that some major life event will
prevent me from pursuing skating or working on a startup. For the same
reason, I never bought a house and avoided debt. I paid off my credit
cards and I will never again have another personal credit card.

In stark contrast to my own life, my friends that have all these
responsibilities and obligations are more capable and more efficient.
I've spent a lot of time trying to figure that out. And it seems that
(1) settling down on life decisions makes things a bit easier and (2)
the imposition of a higher purpose drives them to work harder. So
they're making huge leaps in their careers and, at the same time,
raising kids. Or maybe they don't have kids, but they have some cause
that they dedicate themselves to completely. Whatever it is, they have
chosen a purpose and, by deciding on a course of action, they've freed
themselves from uncertainty to make more progress in life.

The magnitude of effect that a simple purpose can have on someone's
life is mystifying. If someone doesn't have a higher purpose in life,
what would motivate them to change? How do we decide on our purpose?
Do we look to our passions? Do we dream? What do we dream? Or should
we impart a more rational approach and go with what is safe? One thing
is certain: you don't want to regret the decisions you make, so when
you come to a fork in the road, make a decision and stick it
out. Don't be afraid to admit you've been wrong, but at the same time,
it's better to avoid finding yourself in that position.

<a name="believe-in-yourself"/>

## [&#x2182; Believe in Yourself](#believe-in-yourself)

The number one factor I've noticed in people who've gone too far down
the wrong path? They don't have that driven, focused energy provided
by a sense of purpose.

And why is haven't they found their purpose or passion? They don't
believe in themselves. Or they don't maintain that belief and keep
their eye on the ball. Or they misunderstand their circumstances and
they develop a false sense of confidence. Or they didn't believe in
themselves a specific key points in their adolescence, so they didn't
explore enough of life to discover what would drive them.

We need more mentors in the world to be role models for kids. We need
to be exposed to more skills and activities, so we can grow up to be
well-rounded and capable. There are systemic sociological problems in
our society and they are being caused by a dozen different things. And
we're stalling out whenever anyone tries to address them.

The internet is a majestic platform for reaching out and teaching
people. We hear it constantly: the 1% has never been richer! OK,
yes. That is true, but at the same time, *at no point in human history
has the average person had more opportunities!* In history!! You are
standing on the shoulders of giants and every single person has
unimaginable power that people just 100 years ago couldn't even dream
of. No, not everyone is in the position to take advantage of that.

And the internet provides us with the informational infrastructure to
reach out and figure out how to get people to believe in themselves
again. Interactions will soon be higher-bandwidth and more human than
ever. Because of this and other factors, the capacity for online
influence will become more decentralized. This depends on how the web
is regulated and to what degree people want to interact with virtual
personas.

<a name="metapersona"/>

## [&#x2182; Metapersona &#x1F52D;&#x1F3AD;&#x1F50D;](#metapersona)

There's a great quote and I can't find it -- if anyone knows, plz let
me know, I can't find shit except Deadline articles LMAO -- so I'll
paraphrase:

> In improv, people learn more about themselves and each other's true
> selves when they're acting and wearing masks.

Why is this? It's because the truth is that we are *always* wearing a
mask. Everyone does to some degree. And sometimes we project
differently to different people, for better or worse. But, when we
intentionally wear a mask by acting a part, we have the ability
express ourselves more authentically because our words and actions are
no longer attached to our identity, per se. And so, if we orient our
mind appropriately, we realize that we communicate in ways that might
otherwise be stymied by anxiety or fear.

The face of the internet will change with VR and technology
will become more human. High-bandwidth *human* interactions will begin
to replace textual interactions. This means VR will be a platform for
real communication. It's similar to the difference between Radio and
TV: the power shifts away from the faceless voice. More natural, more
limited social networks will return. It won't be so easy to sway
1,000,000 followers because if you don't have real, in-depth
interactions with someone, the connection won't be strong enough. To
some degree, we'll retain hyperconnectedness and.

My point in mentioning this is that one-on-one interactions will
replace the irrelevant noise of comment threads, where half the
participants are trolls with a few bots. At the same time, people are
interacting in novel ways, but in a high bandwidth manner that causes
people to focus on personal one-on-one connections. There are positive
and negative aspects to this, but I think it's overwhelmingly
positive, with the right safeguards in place.

Furthermore, VR allows people to easily to don another personality. We
can do this on the internet as is, but not to the same degree. This,
combined with the stronger connections, means that people are more
able to understand life from another perspective. But this ability to
experience different "virtual realities" is actually a means of
masking ourselves with a "virtual identity." I would argue that to be in
a virtual reality actually requires that someone have some degree of
identity obfuscation. A kind of mask or virtual identity. There's
risks here, but there's a huge benefit in that we'll learn more about
ourselves and each other, if we can learn to distinguish the confirmation
bias that results from incorrectly associating a virtual reality
experience to a real one. There's some danger here that people will
prefer their virtual identity, their persona, more than their own
identity, but this also contributes to a wider array of experiences.

One problem in VR, and we're already seeing this to some degree, is
that societal norms and roles will blur together. This isn't really a
problem, per se, as it is something to keep in mind. As I've argued,
our society's evolution will accelerate and there's going to be some
turbulence. People are going to want to find something constant to
hang onto. They're going to need that and want that.

<a name="youre-the-hero"/>

## [&#x2182; Life's a Movie and You're the Hero](#youre-the-hero)

This is a great tool for reexamining your life. If your life were a
movie or an epic saga, what would the hero do? The idealized version
of yourself, perhaps as you envision yourself a decade from now, what
would that person do? The person that has built the rocket that took
them to the moon. It's easy to get caught up in our own circumstances,
ruminating and wasting precious time and energy. I spent way too much
on effort just worrying, instead of thinking outside my own situation.

This mindset could go horribly wrong. E.G. if someone decides that
needed to rack up like the Punisher and dispense vigilante justice. So
I'm not really sure how to limit it, other than to say that this is
just a tool. The person you imagine yourself becoming should embody a
stronger sense of the values that you do today. And if you value
things like the Golden Rule, then you couldn't even imagine doing
something horrible like that. Me, personally? I'm more moved by the
hero who is at an extreme disadvantage, who sticks to his values and
outsmarts his opponents by being cunning and courageous.

<a name="circumstance"/>

## [&#x2182; Circumstance](#circumstance)

We are born without any understanding of our world.  We should develop
understanding of our circumstances before deciding they should be
changed or pursuing action. It's a bit ironic that I'd feel strongly
about this, since in my college years, I expended a ton of energy
pushing as hard as I could for just that. Yet, perhaps that's exactly
what qualifies my feelings: I worked hard to change things I didn't
completely understand and misappropriated time & energy doing so.  I
would have been much better served had I reflected on my conditions
and learned a lot more about the world before taking action.

<a name="environment"/>

## [&#x2182; Environment](#environment)

Whereas the previous concept applies to a person's relative, local
environment, this has more to do with a person's absolute, global
environment. It's about how we relate to the world, globally, instead
of our personal situations. That is, both in how the individual
relates to the world and how humanity relates to the world.

It extends to how we relate with nature and the ecosystem. I believe
man should prove itself capable of maintaining nature as is before
attempting to alter it. We have caused so much change to nature with
science before developing tools capable of accurately measuring it's
state. The feedback loops that preserve balance are robust, but
delicate. If enough of them are altered or removed, the consequences
will be irreparably expensive, far outweighing any benefit from
cutting corners. Rather, we're just hoarding the profits for ourselves
and pushing the costs to another generation.

Good news! It looks like there was great progress towards
environmental agreements at Paris. But we have to encourage global
cooperation towards this goal, while accepting the risk that comes
with being the first to act, as such policies imply impaired capacity
for competition. Good news! It looks like there was great progress
towards environmental agreements at Paris. The greatest challenge is
to balance the interests of nature and mankind with global economic
pressures and game theory -- we basically have to convince industry
leaders around the world that they should curtail their profits, while
leaving themselves open for other nations to capitalize on the
opportunity -- so I completely understand how we got to this
situation, but I don't understand why we let those factors persist.

Actually, there are massive profits for those innovators who develop
solutions to help clean up what has been damaged! If environmental
cleanup is viewed in the right way, this is actually an opportunity
for industry. However, the problem is: who's going to pay for it? The
government. The citizens, via taxes. I think by structuring this
challenge creatively, we can create opportunity for ventures funded by
the private-sector to succeed. And there is a long-term, hidden cost
to environmental damage that is difficult for most corporations and
organizations to see. This hidden cost is composed of health problems,
cleanup costs and missed economic opportunity. So, while it seems to
be more expensive to implement environmental policies, it is actually
more expensive for us not to, but if the economic situation gets out
of hand, then our environmental policy doesn't matter.

At the same time, if we implement controls and other nations ignore
them, they could blaze past us and then environmental policy is
irrelevant. Yet, the direction that the global economy is headed is
one where many of the industrial processes that contribute to
pollution will be phased out, as they no longer make sense
financially.

<a name="axiomatic-waypoints"/>

## [&#x2182; Axiomatic Waypoints](#axiomatic-waypoints)

Technology is rapidly changing our life and culture. In this turbulent
period, what can we know to be unequivocally constant? What can we
identify and use as fixed reference points if the basis for our
culture and social structures is constantly shifting beneath our feet.

This is one reason why religion will be relevant through these next
few decades. The philosophical and ideological conclusions one reaches
by extrapolating scientific advancements remain in pace with the rate
of advancement. The transition to the post-Singularity epoch will
necessitate constant and chaotic re-evaluation. Yet, religion,
especially those with long-established tradition, remains constant,
regardless of how life changes around us. So it is useful and, again,
atheism is short-sighted. Or so I believe.

<a name="asymptotic-evaluation"/>

## [&#x2182; Asymptotic Evaluation](#asymptotic-evaluation)

This is more of a tool I use to evaluate new ideas in the concept of
trends, regardless of whether it's a past, present and future.
Basically, I ask myself, what happens if I take that to infinity? Or
zero? What is the likelihood of such a limit and the timescale for
it's occurance?

Examples: what if there was no cost or energy required
for communication? Or what if the maximum theoretical energy density
for batteries changes dramatically? What's the realistic range to
expect that maximum to change to?  What if all information was
available everywhere?  Or what would it be like if we approached a
world where information was instantly available everywhere?  What if
the speed of light was not a limitation?

So this "asymptotic evaluation" is a tool that I use to augment my
powers as a futurist. But developing a better understanding of what
this transitionary period will be like is vital if we survive the next
filter in Fermi's Paradox.

<a name="moving-the-lampposts"/>

## [&#x2182; Moving the Lampposts](#moving-the-lampposts)

Another tool that I use to examine problems. Science is constantly
developing better tools to measure phenomena. One of the best examples
is X-Ray crystallography, for which like 50 Nobel Prizes have been
awarded. If it weren't for this one technique, steampunk would still
be in-vogue and not because it's some kind of chic, hipster style.

So
[moving the lamposts](http://movingthelamppost.com/blog/html/index.html)
isn't exactly my idea or expression, but I seem to be fairly
proficient with it.  Basically, if we're having a hard time seeing
where we are, what if we had a better, brighter flashlight? If we had
an innovative means of measuring some phenomenon, wouldn't we make new
advancements at what would seem to be warp speed?

<a name="self-similarity"/>

## [&#x2182; Self-Similarity](#self-similarity)

<a name="humility"/>

## [&#x2182; Humility](#humility)

Learning how to be humble and why are some of the toughest aspects of
life. And the more you learn about life, the more challenging this
becomes.

No matter who I'm dealing with, I don't want to project an arrogant
attitude or narcissistic personality. If that's the signal someone is
receiving, regardless of whether I intended to send it, that's a huge
turn off. For everyone. People want to be valued. They want to feel
important. If you don't help them provide that feeling for themselves,
then they'll find someone who will.

It's usually contrary to progress in a team to have someone distort
their importance relative to the others. The best team is well
rounded, with respect to an organization's hierarchy. The ideal team
is competitive, they understand each member's strengths and weaknesses
and they try to play to those attributes to further team progress.
Competition is no good when each team member is tripping up someone
else to appear better by comparison. What good does that do? A good
team extracts value from the network: if a team is a graph where each
member is a node, then a good team has a high, well distributed value
received from each edge between the team members. That is, the team

And I've found that time after time, I've missed out on opportunities
to connect and learn from others around me because my words and
attitude signaled the wrong thing.  I do it all the time. And I've
often found myself in the position where my signals and social cues
are intentionally misrepresented by others. Regardless of how I was
misunderstood, the connections to others around my were damaged and I
lost the opportunity to learn from them and better myself. I have been
dealt an unimaginable amount of damage to my career because of this.

E.G. all this technology? I can't afford it. An oculus rift? NEVER
EVEN TOUCHED ONE. My connections to others in technology are
specifically targeted. Apparently, it's ideal if my contact to people
in math, science and technology is minimized.

Over the years, people I looked up to in school and work and life have
piqued my interest in just the right way.  I can't tell you how many
seemingly minor statements have changed my life for the better and I
have no idea where I'd be without those miniscule peices of
advice.

> In 2007: "Hey David, have you heard of this Ruby on Rails thing? My
> web developer friends from Charlottesville say its the next best
> thing since sliced bread."

That simple statement had some pretty big effects on my life. I got
into web development and the first version of Rails that I tried was
1.2.4. I still have some of the code I wrote.

When you're so driven for self-improvement and learning, it's too easy
to tune people out, instead of spending time and energy listening. I
have this terrible habit of just listening for new information and
then tuning out as soon as I realize I'm not getting any new knowledge
or info.  You can only learn once and so many social interactions are
incentivized by the distribution of knowledge. The internet and social
media stymie these incentives by making all information available
everywhere. So when you already know so much and acquiring knowledge
is a primary motivating factor in pursuing social interactions
... well, you fill in the gaps there. Instead of paying so much
attention to whether I recognize the facts behind what people are
saying, I should disconnect from myself and listen to how they are
saying it. I guess.

I wish I was in a location where it was easy for me to connect with
others on an academic basis, but I'm not. The professional world
chewed me up and spit me out several times. I can't get a job in a
large corporation without a BS or BA. It makes very little sense for
me to go back to school to get a Masters or PhD, since I'd have to
complete my Bachelor's. And so the academic world won't accept me. The
small business world can't risk me. The government hates me.

And so what do I really have left? I could start my own business, but
I can't seem to form a team of cofounders. And why is that? ... Moving
on ...

Some people think I'm narcissistic and I'm sure this is true to some
extent. However, the reason I care about my personal image is that
it has been used against me so often! I absolutely cannot stand it
when I have the doors of opporunity slammed in my face, over and over
again. That shit hurts! If someone could do so much for people, why
limit them like that? I have always been as filled with potential as I
am now and I'm sure there are millions of others just like me, who've
been denied opportunity, when their potential likely exceeds mine.

So I have this kind of love-hate relationship with self-image. I want
to be myself and I want others to perceive me as I am. I actually
enjoy receiving honest criticism because it means that I can improve
myself, but I've adapted this defense mechanism to respond to
criticism in certain situations. It's not because I'm hurt by the
criticism, it's that I have had people assault me with frivolous
criticism in the workplace.  Basically, it's because they're trying to
get me fired. Its happened over and over again. It happened in
jamskating and it's also happened many times in my personal life. It
has left me isolated with crippling depression and no one i can to
reach out to for help. I really don't understand why people treat me
like this.

So if I've given you the impression that I'm arrogant, trust me,
that's the last thing I want. I get the feeling that a lot of people
are left with that impression because the people around me are so much
louder than myself. I'm quiet.  I do not think I am better than
anyone. In fact, quite the opposite, but I'm driven to be the best
that I can be. And I struggle to understand what has happened in my
life and why I'm here. I made so many sacrifices to avoid buckling to
violationsof my personal sense of ethics.

Seriously, I suspect that some dark, shadowy government agency has
psychologically & sociologically profiled me, otherwise society's
actions towards me would be a bit more random and less
objective-oriented. To clarify, I'm not saying I know that happened
... I'm saying that it realllly would not surprise me if that had
happened. Every one of the 5 people I have had serious problems with
in my career had psychological training. It's easy to distinguish
someone who understands psychology well and uses it from someone who
just acts naturally. It's also easy to distinguish those people who
care to resolve any problems that might arise and those who actually
want those problems to become worse.

# Conclusions

> "Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live
> forever." - Mahatma Ghandi

- briefly restate the argument to show that "God is not dead" by
  asserting the inevitable arrival of an übermenschlich entity.
  - assert that this means faith is no longer necessary for belief in
    God, since this entity's development assymptotically approaches
    the metaphysical reflection of God
  - this doesn't preclude faith, but means faith is no longer
    necessary.
    - but it can still leave us dealing with the fallout of a belief
      system that is undeniable, where faith is not required.
      - a belief system dependent on faith instead of undeniable
        evidence has it's own qualities and benefits
    - and furthermore, it still leaves us with the responsibility of
      dealing with the problem of nihilism, which Nietszche feared.

> "Every man is born as many men and dies as a single one." -
> Heidegger

The argument I made to refute Nietzsche in part one actually alters
the nature of propositions leading to Heidegger's statement above.
Every man is born with just as much potential, but merges into the
entity representing the sum of human information, the entity that
attempts to reflect the omneity of the metaphysical world.  So we
never truly die, and we merge our consciousness into this entity in
order to become every man.  And because everyone born after a certain
point is doomed to the same fate, one might say we have no choice in
this regard.

The conclusions here depend on the specific capabilities of technology
at the point and of the final capabilities of such technology,
particularly whether we can virtualize, fork, transfer or merge
consciousness and whether such capabilities are complete or
approximated.

But, instead, I'll just leave it as "Every man is born as many men and
becomes every man." Ramifications of the arguments I've put forth are
numerous and significant to how we see ourselves and our relationship
to the universe. I've only tried to clearly state thoughts which I
never wrote down. I don't mean to say that because of these beliefs
that nothing else is possible. I could be wrong about a lot of it and
much of it (maybe most of it) is not actually novel. People have been
talking about the singularity for a very long time.

It's crucial for people to mill over these issues, as we
are approaching developments which lead to a fundamental restructuring
of the world.

(change to be areferential)

Even if someone manages to purge all memory of an individual, you will
never manage to purge all reflections of that person which are alive
inside all of us. Those fragments don't need to be linked by name to
survive -- in fact anonymity was a crucial element, as the love and
oneness we strive for would lose power and relevance if it were
named. And the most important fragments, in fact, would only be
rediscovered, as they are pieces of universal truths. What I have
begun and what we have set in motion cannot be stopped, nor should it
be.

- you're #WhatHaveViews
  - thoughts belong to those who think them.
  - words belong to those who write them.
  - languages belong to those who speak them.
  - and our memes? they belong to us
  - our languages? they belong to us

#&#x300C;&#x25CA;&#x203D;&#x03BB;&#x2207;&#x03A6;&#x300D;
{:center}


### &#x0DF4;&#x0DEF;&#x0DF4;

# &#x0BF8;&#x0BD0;&#x0E5B;

# &#x0B87;

&#x0DA7;

## &#x0DF4;



&#x0B90;&#x0B95;&#x0BBE;

&#x0B9C;

&#x0B83;&#x0B9C;&#x0BC7;

&#x0B9C;&#x0BBE;

&#x0B87; &#x0BB4;

&#x0BD0; (om)

&#x0BF3;&#x0BE7;
