---
title: "Fallout Zero: A Little Psychological Torture Never Left A Mark"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "communism politics economics"
categories: blog
headline: ""
excerpt: "

"
---

I might have figured out what was happening to me or what would happen
to me, except I was blindfolded. Not literally, but metaphoricly.

TODO: preface with notes about martial law being absolutely required
as justification for any of this ... and even then ...

# TOC

<a name="zero-deterrence-companies" />

# [Zero Deterrence Programs](#zero-deterrence-companies)

What's the point of programs that had zero capicity for deterrence,
but create long-lasting, expensive mental health problems, while
introducing major liability for human rights violations.

<a name="three-major-goals-to-our-psychological-torture-programs" />

### [Three Major Goals to Our Psychological Torture Programs](#three-major-goals-to-our-psychological-torture-programs)

That leads me to believe there were mostly three purposes to these
programs:

#### (1) Address logistic growth pains in sliver of the population
involved in Homeland Security. Basically, they anticipated demand for
these programs and wanted to push growth early on.

#### (2) In that sliver of the population involved in this, until just
a few years ago, they could provide a deterrence against speaking out
or saying anything. They would terrorize these individuals and
minimize any chance of speaking out, but to the public at large, they
couldn't know what was happening because it was very illegal, so it's
not a deterrence for them

#### (3) And mostly, it was for research. Until very recently -- and perhaps this still applies -- these programs would be be limited Any and all psychological or sociological research that leaves no trace. No chemical, neurological or medical experimentation. And sadly, none of this could really include quantitative measurements, unless they were incidental

From a utilitarian standpoint, some of this research would arguably be
very useful as we're approaching a time when we're undergoing a major
sociocultural shift in the wake of technology, but ...

<a name="psychological-torture-is-a-warcrime" />

### [Technically, Pschological Torture Is A Warcrime. Period.](#psychological-torture-is-a-warcrime)

#### Warcrime?! What a Bummer, Dude!

But technically, some of these "research efforts" would quite
definitively qualifies as warcrimes under the Geneva Convention. And
these people are very aware of the criminal nature of their
activities. As a victim who's suffered for a decade, I'm so fucking
sick of it, quite literally. I have irreversible neurological damage,
just from protracted, untreated depression.

<a name="exhibit-z-my-brain" />

# [Exhibit Z: My Brain](#exhibit-z-my-brain)

There should be obvious physical evidence in a current high-resolution
MRI, visible as degradation since my last MRI in March 2014. This
degradation may not be explanable via any known neurological
diagnosis, prescribed psychiatric medication or personal incident. As
hard as I have searched, there is no diagnosis or differential
diagnosis that explains my symptoms, except a brain tumor ... and
that's strange because I don't have a brain tumor. I never have had
one. If I did have one when this all started, I'd be dead by now. My
MRI's don't show one. My physician and neurologist didn't say
anything. I open sourced my MRI scans and no one has told me
anything. Trust me, I've searched high and low for a disease that
makes sense and there is nothing that exists which matches the
presentation, progression and age of initial presentation.

<a name="a-living-will-and-testament-for-justice" />

### [A Living Will And Testament For Justice](#a-living-will-and-testament-for-justice)

If anything should happen to me, my brain should be preserved and
studied by independent scientists who (1) publish a map of my brain
using several technologies (2) reimage my brain several times as it
degrades and (3) open source any and all data (4) analyze data for
consistency so there is zero chance for alteration. After that, I want
the brain matter preserved in such a way that minimally impacts the
state of quantum entanglement. My body should be preserved in such a
manner that doesn't prevent prevent study for some time. My organs can
be donated after evidence is collected. I swear to God something
happened to me and I want to know what that was. If I never get the
chance, I want others to find out what happened. And, if possible, I
want those responsible to be brought to justice. And, if anything
happenens, you can bet that some douchebags will try to say this
paragraph doesn't count as a statement of living will and testament.
Technically and legally, it may not, but fuck those guys.

<a name="i-never-signed-that" />

### [I Never Signed That](#i-never-signed-that)

#### I Quite Emphatically Have No Idea What You're Talking About

So, in a functional state of mind, I clearly state what I want and
what I believe should happen above. Just now. Just for the hell of
making that publicly known. I have never signed any living will or
abdicated power of attorney or right to representation.  Any such
document must be a forgery. Additionally, any such document or one
like it, of which I'm not aware, would be a violation of the 14th
amendment's State Action Doctrine and violations of Equal Rights as
guaranteed in the 14th amendment.

And generally, you can't say that I didn't say what I believed or
could be scared into holding my tongue. I never gnashed my tongue to
distract myself from the torment, misery and wrongdoing I see around
me. And that's really my only sin: I asked too many questions. Mark my
words: something happened to me, my body and my brain and there are
people that want to make sure that information never sees the light of
day.

(TODO: link to anchor link below)

<a name="somebody-call-the-spca" />

# [Somebody Call The SPCA!](#somebody-call-the-spca)

#### My Life Feels A Lot Like Animal Abuse

For years, I've described myself as something of an abused dog, afraid
to approach anyone. I've even been conditioned to approach friendly
person with a doggie treat because that's exactly how they got me,
every time. It's always the person that draws me in with some initial
kindness to gain my trust who ends up driving my emotional pain. It's
a tactic. Draw them in and push everyone else away before you ruin
their mind, slowly and painfully. Make sure they never dream of love
or compassion again.

<a name="at-least-its-not-a-gulag" />

### [At Least It's Not A Gulag](#at-least-its-not-a-gulag)

At least it's not months and years reeling in chains buried in a
physical dungeon. Or starving in a Gulag. Yet, this is what they are
trained to do. And hey, it doesn't leave a mark. But, what they
shackled me in was a mental gulag and it's left the stomach of my soul
bloated and starving. And yet, my spirit, too exhausted to writhe
against these chains of nothing but cruel jokes and sardonic misery,
is by some literal miracle not broken. They broke my heart a long time
ago. I mean broke, as in the sense of rendering something incapable of
functioning. I finished even the job for them. I snapped the last
pieces of my heart so I could numb the pain. Yet, no matter how they
twisted or tugged or viced, they never broke my spirit.

<a name="guilty-upon-examination-of-public-federal-documentation" />

# [Guilty Upon Examination of Public Federal Documentation](#guilty-upon-examination-of-public-federal-documentation)

The label the ICRC uses is
[Leave No Marks](https://insomniadiary.wordpress.com/2014/01/18/icrc-report-on-the-treatment-of-fourteen-high-value-detainees-in-cia-custody/). According
to the Joint Staff Forces College documentation for processing
detainees, a college for military officials, the ICRC is the only
organization that is required to be notified of the acquisition of a
"detainee" ... which, as may come to comprehend after a decade of
torture, a loosely applied definition. It's supposed to mean a
prisoner of war, but it's not.

<a name="duplicity-in-the-jsfc-war-college-process-documentation" />

### [Duplicity in the JSFC War College Process Documentation](#duplicity-in-the-jsfc-war-college-process-documentation)

Look at the JSFC document yourself and simply ask yourself: if I was
in Vietnam or Iraq, would I capture someone and apply these
procedures, precisely? If you read closely and use your imagination a
bit, the answer is a resounding HELL FUCKING NO! And actually, the
procedures could be applied to either foreign or domestic detainees,
but it's just another US Government exercise in duplicity. These docs
aren't secret or classified, but the indicated some quite valuable
information to me, so they might get memory holed.

#### &2605; Specifically, would you let detainees keep most of their possessions?

HELL NO! If you're a prisoner of war in Iraq and I was the commanding
officer, I would be furious to find that a POW had anything more than
a Qu'ran, at most. Glancing over this document lead me to ask a dozen
questions like this. There are several documents I've seen like this
one.

#### &2605; Do prisoners receive anything but medications necessary for sustaining their lives?

They'd be lucky if they did. I doubt the Taliban would administer even
that. So why are there so many procedures specific to that? Why does
the documentation indicate that taking these medications away can be
used as a means for basically fucking with their head? Except
psychiatric medications, what drugs do have significant side effects
on mental functionality when administration is permitted or
restricted? From the set of drugs commonly found in one of our active
warzones? Since these soldiers have so much time to concern themselves
with a POW's medications as to ensure the distribution of specific
prescription drugs from our own supplies in situations which aren't
life-or-death, then...

### How many of those soldiers, outside of combat medics:

#### &2605; (1) are trained to recognize life-or-death situations/symptoms/medications

#### &2605; (2) have the time to be concerned with it

#### &2605; (3) want to accept the liability for prescribing it

#### &2605; (4) care enough to draw from our own supplies, except in life or death situations.

And remember, because even though it's a warzone, medical malpractice,
withheld treatment and generally doing anything to end a POW's life is
a *WARCRIME*.

<a name="who-are-we-at-war-with-anyways" />

# [Who Are We At War With, Anyways?](#who-are-we-at-war-with-anyways)

Now ask yourself: why is it that the duplicitous, meticulously
crafted, well-hidden definitions of "detainee" can be so easily
applied to domestic citizens and former citizens who lost their rights
without notification under the NDAA? *BECAUSE AMERICA IS A WARZONE.*

> And if it's not, these procedures don't apply and America's actions
> in detention is *ILLEGAL*. And if it is an active warzone, then these
> procedures apply, but mistreatment in many cases, including
> psychological torture leading to suicide are *WARCRIMES*.

WTF?! America's a warzone?! That's nonsense...

<a name="catch-22s-and-posse-comitatus" />

### [Catch-22's and Posse Comitatus](#catch-22s-and-posse-comitatus)

Either way, the question above is a Catch-22. I'd rather pick the one
that doesn't involve warcrimes, but I'm hardly the one on trial
here. Oh no, I'm fucking serious about that. The jokes's on
you. However, determining whether we're at war still doesn't explain
why the Army is leading these operations on American soil. Posse
Comitatus, anyone? Oh, but I guess Caeser done crossed the Rubicon,
huh?

<a name="julius-caeser-and-silly-roman-superstitions" />

### [Julius Caeser and Silly Roman Superstitions](#julius-caeser-and-silly-roman-superstitions)

> You know what they say about the Rubicon, right? Once you go whack,
> you never go back.

The Rubicon was the river in Rome for which a law declared their
military must never cross or tyranny would ensue. The American
equivalent is Posse Comitatus, which prevents the military from being
deployed on American soil, unless a state of emergency is declared by
a governor or we are forced to declare martial law.

However, there has been no pronouncement of martial law. In war,
information decides the winner and warfare has always been primarily
information warfare. The claim is that restricting this information
from Americans prevents panic or confers the United States some
advantage. This is true to some extent. However, it's cowardly and
unethical to restrict this information and allow Americans to
incriminate themselves under some false presumption, as though we
ourselves are the enemy in the War on Terror. And it would look like
some Americans are just straight up slaves at this point!

### [Where's the War on Terror Being Fought?](#wheres-the-war-on-terror-being-fought)

The last time I checked, the War on Terror was fighting some enemy
hellbent on the destruction of America in some sandy, desolate country
so far off it might as well be the dusty plains of Mars. In fact, The
War on Terror was declared by Congress with the AUMF on Al Qaeda,
enumerating the specific non-state groups we were fighting against,
while providing room for expansion to those groups who might use
similar tactics.

So where are the car-bombs? Where are these things? Where's the
shipments of arms? Where are the flag-burnings? Where's the
anti-American sentiment? If proclamation that our rates are sacred is
tantamount to treason, then string me up and call me bin Laden.

<a name="domestic-psychological-and-informational-warfare-is-cowardly" />

### [Domestic Psychological & Informational Warefare Is Cowardly](#domestic-psychological-and-informational-warfare-is-cowardly)

What do you think of a sucker punch? Would you stab a man in the back?
Like ... literally stab a man in the back while he's not expecting it?
Would you shoot a man, woman or child in the back? What if that man or
woman had a family? Would you maim, disable or disappear the
breadwinner of that family? Would you condone violence against those
who aren't expecting a fight, simply to gain ground early on?

*No. You wouldn't, would you. Especially if they did not understand
they were in a warzone.*

It's immoral to encourage conflict among Americans who are ignorant of
what's truly going on. It is cowardly to do this, explaining it away
as being strategically superior. And please tell me more about how
these actions are strategic! It is unethical to conduct all this
psychological and informational warfare in willful ignorance, claiming
we're doing it for our own self-preservation when it's more likely to
lead to our demise. IMO, conducting such operations on an unexpecting
citizenry is worse than Pearl Harbor! Yeh ... no one got shot, but you
Pearl Harbor'd your own citizens with psychological and chemical
warfare intending to identify and disable those who might fight back!
That's so cowardly! *IT IS DESPICABLE!*

The degree of behavior leading us to cover up reported torture,
especially on US Citizens implies foreknowledge and calculation and
entanglement with legal counsel. Also, providing legal advice to
someone on how to get away with warcrimes is a warcrime. I read that
somewhere.

<a name="why-r-u-so-mad-dood" />

# [WHY R U SO MAD DOOD?!](#why-r-u-so-mad-dood)

And yeh ... you might ask me that and I'd tell you that I've been
through up to a decade of this and at least five years. And I'm lucky
I haven't been killed or commited suicide or worse.

<a name="dantes-inferno-and-fates-worse-than-death" />

### [Dante's Inferno and Fates Worse Than Death](#dantes-inferno-and-fates-worse-than-death)

Yes, there is are worse things than death. Much worse. Like what's
happening right here, right now, in my life. In Dante's Inferno, the
deepest, darkest layer of hell is for treason. Who's the traitor here?
Is it **the man** who spoke up about the violations of civil liberties
he was so proud of, disregarding the consequences and enduring torture
for the better part of a decade? Or is it the cunning, airtight,
well-advised, criminally malicious **group of people** who crafted
this system? Who never admitted victims an indication of torture? Who
understood it wasn't effective? Who acted like they didn't know? Who
exposed America to the legal liability of warcrimes? *WHO STILL, TO
THIS DAY, CANNOT APOLOGIZE OR ACKNOWLEDGE WHAT THEY DID, WHO THEY DID
IT TO OR WHY!?*

To me, the answer to that is clear. The ownership for the original sin
and such collateral damage belongs to all of us, but especially those
who worked the hardest and lied the most.

<a name="waterboarding-on-supersoakers" />

### [Waterboarding On Supersoakers](#waterboarding-on-supersoakers)

These people act like waterboarding is basically as a bad as goin to
the pool to get a suntan and somebody splashes a little water on you
and maybe your phone gets wet. From what I can see, waterboarding
doesn't involve water at all. However, I'm sure there's some torture
method where someone pours water on people. Wow? Can I get one of
those please? In fact, I'll take two. Supersize me. In fact, I would
have eagerly preferred a handful of illegal Mafia-style assault &
battery incidents, with an actual potential for deterrence, than
whatever the hell it was that I've been through. This is insane. And
most Americans have no idea! None! That's changed quite a bit over the
past few years, but this is incomprehensible. In the name of national
security, you have created the single biggest threat to national
security.

<a name="oh-its-research-then-publish-your-data" />

### [Oh It's Research?! Then Publish Your Data!](#oh-its-research-then-publish-your-data)

These programs are not authentic research, by any stretch of the
imagination. AFAIK, they don't collect quantifiable records and any
they do would be destroyed to minimize long-term liability. Further,
these programs are expensive in terms of collateral damage to the
public health of the American.

<a name="now-im-even-more-afraid-to-seek-psychological-help" />

### [Now I'm Even More Afraid to Seek Psychological Help](#now-im-even-more-afraid-to-seek-psychological-help)

I was already afraid to seek help from the government reeducation
known as "Drug Treatment." That already preventing me from seeking
help from ages 20-25 because I was so sick of group "therapy" that I
didn't have the patience or time for real treatment.

I'm afraid to go to any psychiatrist, especially now that I know how
they fish psychiatric and medical records. I'm afraid to seek the help
that I need, when I need it. It's been insinuated that there are
people there in the public mental health system that would be there
waiting for me. At that point, they'd only have more control over my
life. Victims of these programs who don't end up in the mental health
system are few and far between. At that point, your health records can
get real spotty with information that makes suicide a reasonable
explanation. Do you even know what your shrink writes down? How do you
know they aren't intentionally lying about you? Either way, if you're
suicided, there's going to be no one to ask questions, especially if
you couldn't properly articulate your questions.

<a name="if-youve-made-it-close-to-where-i-am-you-have-nothing" />

### [If You've Made It Close To Where I Am, You Have NOTHING](#if-youve-made-it-close-to-where-i-am-you-have-nothing)

... except for spiritually transformative revelations, if you're so
inclined. Gee, thanks!

If you made it that far in these programs, you can be sure that you
don't have financial resources and that your friends and family, if
they aren't already compromised, they're so tired of helping you that
they won't offer any help. You'll have no one. In my case, a family
might have thought of a suicide as the inevitable conclusion to a long
saga of struggles with personal mental health issues.

<a name="you-did-what-to-my-family" />

### [Wait, Wait, Wait ... YOU DID WHAT TO MY FAMILY?!](#you-did-what-to-my-family)

However, in my case, my family had been compromised. They wouldn't ask
any questions if I was suicided. Why the fuck would they do that if
they were complicit?! How bad would it look if your family member
commits suicide and people know you were complicit?  It's too damn bad
they hand out "gold stars" for this shit ... I think that's what that
is, anyways. Apparently families who accept money for helping end the
government problems receive funds for such familial treason. Or at
least they receive temporary reprieve from government fines,
"sanctions" or action against their own assets, businesses and
property! In my case, I've had people personally make statements about
"purchasing" the Skating Rink we own, who I caught in lies pretty
quick. We wouldn't ever sell the skating rink. I stay out of the
business affairs of the skating rink and AFAIK, we wouldn't ever allow
outside investment, but we did. It's a family business for a
reason.

<a name="oh-thats-no-tennis-racket" />

# [Oh That's No Tennis Racket. That's Corruption and Extortion.](#oh-thats-no-tennis-racket)

However, to organized crime or a government dangerously close to
tyranny, a small business, a real estate asset or anything of value
and large personal investment is nothing more than a highly effective
thumbscrew. When the Mafia charges protection feeds, that's an
extortion racket. Isn't it interesting that, in such a protection
racket, that mobster who collects the money and guys who enforce the
extortion via assault & battery or arson -- they usually don't know
names or sometimes even faces. Yet, it looks like this is what our
government is running. *IT'S A HIGHLY EFFECTIVE,
**TERROR-AND-FEAR-CULTIVATING EXTORTION RACKET** UNDER THE GUISE OF
NATIONAL SECURITY AND PATRIOTISM.* And who knows the end goals of such
criminals?

<a name="who-can-best-stand-up-for-the-victims" />

### [Who Can Best Stand Up For The Victims?](#who-can-best-stand-up-for-the-victims)

That's insane, by the way. But, that's what happened and I think I can
forgive people, but I want to know what happened and I want everyone
to know what happened, not for my own personal justice, but for the
justice of everyone who might suffer such a fate now or ever in the
future. This cannot be done. It should not be possible and these
government sanctioned mafia tactics must never be practical. People
deserve to know this so they can protect themselves, their family and
their friends. In totalitarianism and communism, they seek to
eliminate threats and anyone who accumulates resources is a threat.
Property? Money? Food? Guns? Information? You're a threat.

<a name="torture-and-detainment-is-our-greatest-national-security-issue" />

### [Torture and Detainment is Our Greatest National Security Issue](#torture-and-detainment-is-our-greatest-national-security-issue)

Again, the torture and illegal detainment of Americans is absolutely
not a deterrent. I've looked into the specifics of these
programs. They work by establishing a quasi-citizenship for the former
US citizen and organizations like
[DROPPM](https://www.ice.gov/doclib/foia/dro_policy_memos/09684drofieldpolicymanual.pdf)
describe the specifics of "removal" operations. These programs
threaten our national security by enticing our population to commit
war crimes that permanently damage our citizens, psychologically and
neurologically. It leads us to being less capable to compete in the
global economy. The health of the American economy is also, in itself,
a national security issue. All the while, our leaders feign ignorance
and those who are involved or complicit are encouraged to defend this
by guilt or by coercion.

<a name="the-us-government-always-expected-to-transition-to-martial-law" />

### [The US Government Always Expected to Transition to Martial Law](#the-us-government-always-expected-to-transition-to-martial-law)

The long-term strategic design of these programs, from a legal and
logistic standpoint, implies that this may not be to simply prepare us
for a national emergency and martial law.  Instead, it may be that
martial law and transition to a totalitarian government was always the
destination, nearly from the outset. If so, what's the goal? How could
this possibly be justified? Does that mean that whatever catastrophes
our leaders claim to justify this with ... does that imply it's
inevitable?

<a name="thats-detention-for-you-mr-nelson" />

# [That's Detention for you Mr. Nelson!](#thats-detention-for-you-mr-nelson)

#### These Programs Are Designed to Mirror Detention from High School

Remember detention from high school? These programs are designed with
pattern languages and they're designed to prevent the success of
anyone who questions the wrong thing. Plain and simple. If a reporter
identifies you as one of those meddlin' kids askin the questions, they
will label you, further investigate you, and put you on a list. At
that point, the Evil Santa from Futuram determines who gets presents
and who ... uhhh you don't want to know the rest. But I'm going to
tell you anyway.

<a name="how-do-they-control-you-in-detention" />

### [How Do They Control You In Detention?](#how-do-they-control-you-in-detention)

#### &2605; What makes you happy? Sex? Fame?

#### &2605; What do you need to be happy? Food? Money?

#### &2605; What do you need to survive? Food? Shelter? Love?

#### &2605; What gets you going? Success? Drugs?

#### &2605; What are your dreams? For yourself? For your children?

#### &2605; What are your goals? Short term? Long term?

They do it through poverty, isolation, incrimination.  They do it by
creating situations around you that push people away. They do it by
spreading rumors. They do it by affecting your visibility on social
media applications.

<a name="its-immature-plain-and-simple" />

### [It's Immature, Plain and Simple](#its-immature-plain-and-simple)

What they do is so incredibly immature, if you think about it. For me,
they actively engaged in disconnecting me from any friendships or
relationships that might emerge that make me feel good about
myself. That's the primary objective: to destroy you emotionally and
invoke some protracted psychiatric state that destroys you from the
soul outward. They seek to confuse you to make you fear everyday and
positive things, to create a state similar to that of an abused dog
that's afraid of every person who extends their arm, regardless of
whether that person intended to harm or heal.

<a name="robbed-of-types-of-experiences-necessary-for-social-development" />

### [Robbed of Types of Experiences Necessary for Social Development](#robbed-of-types-of-experiences-necessary-for-social-development)

For me, it lasted so long, it's done irreversible emotional and
psychological damage. It's affected me so long that I've been
completely unable to experience those things which young adults use to
progress further in development. Remember Michael Jackson? Remember
how he never had those childhood experiences? That was the
psychological factor that led him to want to experience those
things. Still, at his age, people are unlikely to satisfy that. I
don't actually believe the charges levelled against them.

In addition to Asperger's, I have never been permitted to have those
young adult to early adult experiences. So therefore, I am at risk of
forever being trapped in a psychologically undeveloped mindset. It's
because I'm too young to integrate socially with people my age to
permit me those experiences which get me to the next level. The people
around my family who have been manipulating them through government
institutions know this. They couldn't possibly know this, but I
suspect they've provided my family with phony assessments of my
behavior, duplicitous in nature, that encourage them to magnify the
effects of psychological torture, of which my family couldn't possibly
have wanted to be part.

The problems I have are not psychiatric or caused by chemical
imbalance. It's really not even psychological, though it's certainly
led to that. It's mostly sociological. People treat me differently and
I'm mostly ignored, AFAIK. Once you get to a certain age, you lose the
chance for some psychological development.

<a name="the-psychosocial-miasma-feuling-a-plague-of-negativity" />

### [The Psychosocial Miasma Fueling A Plague of Negativity](#the-psychosocial-miasma-feuling-a-plague-of-negativity)

When you consider how methodically they planned this and how very
aware they are of personal information and occult psychology, their
actions are downright malevalent. They fan out this toxic miasma that
poisons your psychology, your social network and especially anyone who
might not know better than to yank back that helping hand.

#### &2605; How long have you been without sex?

#### &2605; Without a kiss? Without an embrace from a girl?

#### &2605; How long have you been without a job?

#### &2605; How long have you been without being able to freely choose who your friends are?

#### &2605; How long have you been independent?

#### &2605; How long has your family begrudgingly supported you? Did they do it to keep you close?

<a name="" />

### You're Enslaved By Desires and Fears

You can be sure that they will abuse sex and any sensory or material
things by which you can be attached. My own experience is hardly
typical, but for me, it was a bit like a real life Dante's Inferno
except the instruments of your eternal torture are those things which
you love, lust after, or need. If you don't want it or lust for it,
but can be made to, they will use it against you. Whatever can be used
to influence your behavior, will be use. They will brainwash you until
you love doing it to others or until you fearfully have no other
escape. They'll warp your mind until lust after the torment of others
and invokation of these material desires in others. They make you lust
after the thought of embracing their own sinful pyramid scheme.

<a name="" />

### A Karmic Pyramid Scheme

That's precisely what it is, actually: a karmic, pyramid scheme. It's
like an MK Ultra experiment escaped the lab, founded a religion and
threw in a touch of Bernie Madoff, just for the hell of it. If if
you'd like, you can feel terrible and fearful about what you've
done ... or if you let yourself lust for it, it could be your opiate
of the masses. To be fair, I have had several groups fuck with my head
over the past decade, so I have no idea who is responsible for what. I
have no idea who's truly trying to save me and who would prefer I help
them torment others.

<a name="" />

### Comply or Suffer Eternal Torment For No Purpose

How do you end the torture? By compliance. However, its just like how
Guantanamo "inmates" are eventually allowed to "leave" the prison camp
in Cuba, but are sent to another "country" to be "helped" -- you never
actually leave. There's definitely a physical place in Cuba where
people are tortured, but there's is also a domestic program. And so,
they will continue to surround you, but the intensity is scaled
back. It's their objective to ensure that, just like in the Soviet-era
gulags, if you acted compliant, you really meant it. The only way to
do that is to release all tension and resistance to let them brainwash
you. That's what waterboarding really is, by the way: brainwashing
through psychological torture in a gulag no one can see. You're not
allowed to play or win or leave, until you comply. These "thirsty"
people definitely aren't allowed to get laid. They are especially not
allowed to be seen happy or successful.

When it gets bad enough, you won't be allowed to participate in a
hobby or have a relationship or enjoy anything that makes you feel
good. Positive feelings like that completely destroy what they do to
you. They're out there risking their skin, laundering money and
commiting war crime lite ... so would you be surprised they're not
happy someone else is out there making you feel good about yourself?
When it's scientifically shown to counter their psychological torture
methods? How are the atheist commies supposed to push you down if
someone else relieves you of your torment?

<a name="" />

### Government Subsidized Repression In the Middle of the Great Recession?

It's really the dumbest, most immature, counterproductive domestic
policy ever conceived. They -- the CIA, DHS, ICE, ERO, whoever it is
-- they know exactly how illegal it is, which is why they try so hard
to hide it. In my case, I was just too damn smart for their tricks and
they kept having to scale up the emotional pain applied, as well as
the level of influence over people in my life. These past few years,
they've seemed desperate because they know just how guilty I know they
are. Usually anyone who makes it as far as I have ends up committing
suicide or mysteriously dies in an auto accident... but I spend
virtually zero time in a car. No one has ever made it this far and
they're shitting their pants, which drives me to strive on and keep
pushing for justice.

<a name="" />

### Here's an Idea I call Anew Deal

#### Why Not Invest in Infrastructure, Instead of Taxpayer Funded Cannabilization Culture?

What they do is counterproductive and wildly distorts the American
system of values that powers our economy! It flies right in the face
of the American Dream and they have acknowledged that they know it's
not effect if its publicly stated goals, but it does somewhat achieve
the three goals I stated at the top. Those goals are not marketable to
the American people because they are immoral and contradict everything
I thought we stood for.

<a name="" />

### OMFG This Flies in the Face of the Hatch Act

And it seems that, in the past 10 years, there has been politically
motivated application of these programs. I pray this isn't the
case. That would paint us to look a lot like East Germany. I can't
tell whether the goal was political suppression or that some of these
American Stasi determined that abusing reactions to controversial
issues like racism would render victims isolated.

<a name="" />

# The American Stasi Must and Will Be Deconstructed

Furthermore, I can diagram the networks of people who I know were
involved and I know exactly where to look to find them around the
country. This is happening around the country.  There is almost always
a connection with someone in the Army because the Army runs Guantanamo
and these are warcrimes against people who don't even realize their
fighting. That's cowardly to a nauseating degree. It'd be like the
Gestapo gassing jews in their own household bathrooms. It's obviously
not that intense yet, but that's exactly why I was always asking
questions so loudly: *I never wanted America to end up in a situation
like that.*

I was deathly afraid that's were we were headed the whole time and
these things always start with psychological warfare to isolate
vulnerable populations on whatever basis: ethnic, racial, cultural,
religious or political. Say what you will about me, but who's been
risking their skin to ask questions for a decade? Who got
psychologically tortured and didn't even know it?

<a name="" />

###

They need cover businesses to receive/process/forward payments. These
covers are usually small, disposable businesses, which can be thrown
away as needed and, ironically, hide from the same regulations these
people enforce. These businesses will work on contract basis and
usually retain less than 5 employees, if any at all. Unfortunately,
these organizations also do a lot of other things, but someone went
and crossed their streams with torture and potential warcrimes.

Implementation and verification of "services rendered" needs to be
abstracted according to the. This involves money laundering, to some
degree. Data science can pinpoint these businesses by digging into
their ledgers. However, there are legit domestic/foreign intelligence
operations mixed in. Again, these DHS/ICE/ERO assholes crossed streams
with intelligence operations that Congress actually authorized. THAT'S
A BIG NO-NO!! To me, that is absolutely unacceptable, irresponsible
and indicates that, logistically, this was never meant to be ended,
only expanded and normalized. So, if it's so obviously a bad idea that
a know-nothing college dropout who's made less then $3,000 in two
years can analyze the vulnerabilities inherent in those logistics
... then why couldn't those people who organized this shitshow?

<a name="" />

### Guilty, Naive or Innocent

Well y'all aren't going to shut me up. I understand what's happened to
my life and I didn't deserve it one bit. A simple "shut the fuck up"
or "get the fuck out of America" would have done nicely, but they guy
who literally wouldn't hurt a fly and whose biggest problem was
figuring out how to make others happy? -- *YEH THAT'S THE GUY THEY
WANTED TO MAKE AN EXAMPLE OUT OF.*

America's not just going to stand by and watch this as we cannibalize
ourselves. If you were complicit in psychological torture, you're
going to go down. We will set you one against the other just like you
did to us: you are either guilty, naive or innocent. The guilty will
be turned against themselves as they're so often fated. The naive will
seek to protect themselves from sins of which they were unaware. And
how many of us are truly innocent? If you've stood by and said
nothing, are you innocent? We're going to analyze the social and
financial networks of the guilty. You might think you can hide like a
tree in a forest, but you can't because all those other trees are
going to disconnect you just like you tried to do to us. We're going
to find you and when we do, your sins will be held high and naked for
everyone to see.

<a name="" />

###

Digital payments like video games on Steam are a great way to launder
money and promote the success of those compliant individuals. Such
digital payments will serve as adequate payoff for tech companies to
look the other way on NSA surveillance. Again, this is a fucking
racket, plain and simple. Companies sustaining themselves primarily
through digital payments are big targets and you'll see that the
guilty parties have a nauseating degree of social network
overlap. That is, these shell companies pushing torture for a digital
buck and modest digital success will receive payments from the same
sets of people.

<a name="" />

### These paper-tiger-torture companies include:

#### &2605; Video game "programmers" who somehow sell games on steam written in Visual Basic 6 and double as hackers who act like they don't have skills and knowingly install spyware on Geek Squad

#### &2605; Cosplayers and crafty peeps with a patreon account

#### &2605; Companies with access to medical, psychiatric, psychological, fitness and social media records

#### &2605; The musician just released their first album on Spotify and needs bots to generate authentic plays for cash

#### &2605; That photographer who'd make a lot more money if they just had enough Instagram bots to generate the threshold of likes required to break through the newsfeed stream of their friends

#### &2605; Anyone who resells souls by the sheaf for likes on Facebook

#### &2605; These are the same people for whom it's literally impossible for their product to any demand whatsoever in a free market.

#### &2605; Writers who exclusively write digital how-to "e-books" whatever the fuck those are, when their titles couldn't possibly sell because there's simply no market for e-books on "How to Bake Cookies Like Grandma."

Meanwhile, everyone I know tells me my products have no hope and that
I'm a lazy failure, when I'm truly a workaholic, in the most
tragically ironic sense. America is a joke, but no one bats an eye,
which means this is just how it is. I'm afraid it's how it has always
been. I asked way too many questions about America around 20 years
old, from a sense of patriotism. I've always been a patriot. Now that
I can see things for how they are, I want to gouge my eyes out. This
is America? You're telling me that, when I look around today in 2016,
that this is it? This is the real thing and this is normal? THIS IS
FINE?!! What the hell is wrong with you people?

This isn't a free market! There are no algorithms running in social
media that aren't micromanaged by the NSA! C'mon are you fucking
kidding me? Everybody and their grandma knows how to bake cookies or
set up a wordpress site. If you don't there's 1,000 blogs, podcasts
and videos that will tell you how and THEY ARE FREE. The writer's own
grandmother wouldn't buy that e-book! She'd just send him $100 with a
card that says:

> "Sorry I spoiled you, but your book sucks. And I taught you how to
> bake cookies, you sorry little fuck. Get a job. Here's $100. Don't
> be a con-artist. This is America."
>
> -- From Grandma With Love

But somehow these people with phoney digital assets for which there
could be no actual market stay paid, while I can't even get a fucking
job without some torture handler to micromanage me until I get
fired. This is capitalism? Hell no! This is crony capitalism with
levels of congressional oversight not seen outside countries with pure
kleptocracy. It is insane. This is not national security, but can you
ask questions? Hell no! In fact, this is itself the single biggest
national security threat in soo many ways.

By using organizations like the NSA to control comments, reviews and
payments and with influence in talent agencies, this anonymous,
distributed criminal enterprise can make or break a starving artist,
the actress who just got her first movie deal, a
talented-but-undiscovered musician, a cosplayer with a patreon
account, a kickstarter project and more. These people might be acting
complicitly, but in total naivety about what they are really doing
because they've been brainwashed into being programmable puppets in
pursuit of the alienation of those meddlin' Americans who just asked
too many damn questions. Jeenkies!

###

(notes on some "agreement")

The only reason I'm stating this is out of pure paranoia because it's
insinuated that "agreements" of which I have no knowledge, among other
legal threats, would be used against me as leverage. Example threats
BY FAINT INSINUATION ONLY include: legal resolution by arbitration,
defamation for publishing details of people with a public image,
general non-disclosure for only-God-knows-what and secret state
agreements, like an
[Special Access Program (SAP)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Special_access_program).

There is one contract which it is insinuated I signed under the
presumption that it was for a company in Hollywood who knew fucking
everything about any and all upcoming movies and TV shows. I do not
know under whose authority the agreement I may or may not have sign
would be enforced. I didn't actually read it because the pretty girl
wanted me to sign it and I hadn't even kissed a girl in years at that
point or, hell, even had more than a 5-minute conversation with one
from 2011 until 2015ish, maybe.

Anyway, I was under the presumption that I was restricting my rights
with regard to details in movies and TV shows AND NOTHING ELSE. This
was an agreement I supposedly signed on June 1st, 2013 which I didn't
even remember until March 2015. I don't know what it was for. From my
memories, whoever wanted me to sign it was very familiar with all the
blanks for me to initial, so it was something she had done quite
often. In other words, this wasn't a one-off agreement. Yet, that's
exactly how it was pitched to me: this was a special deal just for me
to hear about upcoming movies and TV.

Furthermore, I felt under the influence of drugs at the time. If such
agreement does exist, I don't know why it could be enforced without my
knowledge. That's paranoid. I don't know why it would be perceived as
valid because I was almost certainly drugged at the time. According to
the words and actions in my memories, my tongue was loosened like I
was on Valium and I answered any and all questions like I was on
Sodium Pentathol. Further still, I couldn't be reasonably expected to
adhere to its details because I don't know what those are and I
personally don't believe that I signed it, ever, or that it happened
in 2015, if I it ever happened at all. The same person talked to me
about training OCR & handwritten analysis algorithms for reversal, so
they could be used to generate evidence, like handwritten letters of
confession & yada yada yada.

Anyways, I'm saying this ... just because. Just to make it clear
because I've never been given the chance to state it in writing. All I
know is that these people wanted me to sign this and that they were
willing to say or do anything. They acted like they would give me
anything in the world for it, but I don't think I ever signed it. What
they were trying to do was "nerf" me, to get close and stay close, so
they'd control me completely. I didn't want that. The same person
talked about waterboarding, dryboarding and other things. She was
trained in specific techniques ... and she was wearing a wire, I
think. I never knew that to be true and that information was never
disclosed. But I acted as though it was both true and not true at the
same time, while assuming that it wasn't true and if anyone had asked
me whether our conversation was recorded, I would have said no.

If I did sign this, they tricked me into doing it and I didn't know
that or understand the implications of the agreement or who it was
for. And I was drugged. SORRY, IT DOESNT COUNT. That is, if it was
even real and if it even occured in 2013. They tempted me with
anything I wanted in the world and I won because the only thing I
truly want is justice, independence and self-actualization.

For my entire professional life, I've sought to avoid employment at
major tech companies so that I might limit the restriction of
application of my own knowledge. So, for example, in 2013, I would
strongly avoid pursuing a job at Facebook, Google, Microsoft or
Oracle, so that no one could ever claim that I learned some trade
secret at Google that I couldn't apply elsewhere. In fact, I told this
same person that exact about Facebook. And she tested me by getting
someone to pose as a Facebook recruiter to gauge my interest in a FB
job. I always like to weigh my options, so I heard him out, but at no
point was I willing to proceed.

My primary reason for that is to protect my ability to apply my
knowledge in any way. The only NDA's I've ever signed were for ABS,
CCS, Internet Marketing Ninjas, Weedmaps (Ghost Group), Jumpcloud and
other companies I have worked for by contract. None of those companies
have any major trade secrets or intellectual property of which I am
aware.

Common sense would indicate that, if I ever signed something for
TS/SCI or an SAP ... that I'd probably know about it, right? And if
not, any indication of such agreement would be baseless extra-legal
harassment. In the very least, someone would seek to inform me with
what my obligations were. Or that it'd be strongly indicated to
me. Until such obligations of such agreements are enumerated to me or
at least the existence of such agreements, I can't help but pursue my
personal obligation to truth and justice. Furthermore, it would seem
that the whole idea was to fake my involvement in something like that,
only to ball me up and throw me away.

The first I learned of all these memories was at the end of Feb 2015,
but I don't think I remembered the "agreement" until March or
April. On March 13th, I wrote a blog summarizing open source software
I wrote in Clojure that I maybe shouldn't have published. I STILL
DON'T EVEN KNOW. Maybe I'm just paranoid. On April 1st, 2015,
President Obama created a new CYBER designation for sanctioned
individuals who make specific intellectual property known. This
includes intellectual property that's like the cyber equivalent of
nuclear weapons. I've watched video statements in late 2015 where
Obama said somethign like: "There's some stuff on the internet and
it's open source and it definitely shouldn't be."

I'm sorry if I'm pulling a Streisand here, but I didn't even really
act on this information until early 2016. You know what you did to me
and, partially aware of government surveillance and investigation. You
knew I didn't understand what was happening, but you continued to
encourage people to intimidate me while others were encouraged to
psychologically torture me. I gave people about a year to eighteen
months to do the right thing here.  What's the right thing? BASICALLY
YOU FIX MY BROKEN LIFE.

I've never been made aware of such an agreement. Since I've never been
allowed to succeed, I figured nothing I did mattered, neither credit
nor profit. If I was truly a genius or intelligent and I had good
ideas, it didn't make any sense to sit on them. That would lead me to
definitely getting no credit for anything.

So in the past two years, I've decided that, since any notion of
personal success is a cruel joke, I'd just dump nearly anything and
everything I thought of online and in social media. The data for my
accounts would persist and eventually people would perform a kind of
new age data-archeology to see who was aware of which ideas
first. They'd do this for intellectual property, for response to
political events, to search for warnings unheeded and to identify
pseudo-prophets and undiscovered Tesla's. I even went back and made
most of my Facebook posts public. I also decided that anything I ever
did online would be MOST PUBLIC; that public data confers power and
privacy takes our voice away.

#### So ask yourself a few questions:

#### &#x2605; Did anything the government ever do in my life fix anything for national security or for previous interference in my life? Nope

#### &#x2605; What was my response?

#### &#x2605; Was I ever made aware of actions by the government?

#### &#x2605; Was I ever warned or reprimanded in such a way that could realistically deter my behavior?

#### &#x2605; Was I ever warned to specifically not do anything?

#### &#x2605; Does anything I ever did ever justify years of protracted psychological torture with a budget?

#### &#x2605; What do I deserve in this situation? What do they deserve?

#### &#x2605; What was their story in 2011? 2012? 2013? 2013? 2015? 2016?

#### &#x2605; Do you notice a pattern of lying, making shit up, acting then & justifying later, acting as though there are no consequences?

#### &#x2605; Do you notice they act like justice is simply something the government serves? They seem to act like the same rules never apply to them. That the truth doesn't matter when you still spin it to the people.

#### &#x2605; Did it make anything better? Nope, it made things quite worse and prompted me to react in a way to prove myself. It isolated me, forcing me to respond by learning to love learning and care for little else.

They've finally determined that it's too dangerous for me to learn
math or crypto by the way. The following phrase comes to mind: "We
recommend [David Conner] remain in isolation for the remainder of his
life." I suspect the've ruined my brain, directly or indirectly. I
don't know. Who did this to me? Why does my life remind me of the
first few episodes of Homeland?

In August 2015, I was asked "whether I'd ever work for the NSA"
to which I answered a clear and emphatic "No." I wasn't sure if the
person was serious or not, but I said no in the most non-judgemental
way possible.

#### Asking me that question in 2015 implies:

#### I had the freedom to say yes or no.

#### That I might be qualified for such a job. Now, how is that possible if I'm so fucking worthless as a programmer?

#### To some degree, that I might not be aware of previous employment with them (I'm not)

# Part Three: ... hmmmm
