---
title: "International Trends 2020: The Automation Crisis"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# The Automation Crisis

There is an economic crisis brewing. As automation drives
unemployment, governments will be forced to respond with policy:
either Universal Basic Income or Employer of Last Resort. Regardless
of
[the economic and sociocultural merits of UBI versus ELR](/posts/2017-06-05-international-trends-2020-universal-basic-income.html),
neither policy is sufficient to stave off unemployment's effects on
revenue streams to banks. In turn, this triggers several downstream
effects, including a major reduction in liquidity available to banks
and a major slowdown in consumer and corporate lending. These effects
come at a poor time.

To cope with the economic turbulence, governments are compelled to
borrow money to prop up the economy. The greater the scope of
entitlement programs, the more the currency must be diluted in
response. With numbers pulled directly out of my ass, by 2030, we
could reach 20-100% annual growth of the national debt. Imagine the
effect that would have on currency markets, economic development and
lending institutions.

The upcoming crisis is unlike any before. Even though it shares many
of the same components, it is fundamentally different in ways that
will elude many economists. I do not have the data or the expertise to
predict how this will unfold, nor does anyone. It is not necessarily
disastrous for America or the global economy, but there is significant
potential for disruption. Again, it's not necessarily worse, but the
acceleration in economic trends along with qualitative aspects of the
crisis will cause it to elude understanding.

It's critical to keep in mind that America dominates the economic
status quo now. Therefore, all other powers have a greater incentive
to disrupt the status quo than we do in maintaining it. For them, it
is easier to disrupt than it is for us to maintain. Foreign interests
and information warfare have subverted American leftists into
attacking the fundamentals American prosperity. They don't realize
that it is American prosperity that provides the possibility of
expansive social programs. Without these economic interests intact,
the question is no longer whether we should finance entitlement
programs, but whether we can at all.

### [Why Is This Crisis Different?](#why-is-this-crisis-different)

Because there isn't enough liquidity and wealth distribution for
people to keep up with their debt, it's a deflationary depression
where inflationary measures are appealing to inject liquidity into the
economy. Such inflationary measures include UBI and ELR. In doing so,
the finance of budget deficits via credit drives inflation, which
contributes to systemic instability in global currency markets. But
unlike most depressions, various means of production should remain
elevated through the use of technology. Because of automation's
inversion of labor markets, this furthers income distribution
disparity, since the profites fall into singularly fewer hands. The
21st century economy rapidly converges into the control of fewer and
fewer because of the nature of information and intellectual property.

If we don't play our cards right, the outlook on economic expansion is
bleak, so it cannot be assumed that increased profits will lead to
increased tax volume to finance the governmental policy response. In
this case, increased tax rates will also be insufficient. The
liquidity to invest in smart-grid infrastructure and the development
of emerging markets will be restricted. Further complicating matters,
nations often respond to depressionary crises with warfare to
artificially stimulate of economic activity and facilitate
expansion. This creates geopolitical instability at the same time as
global economic crisis.

The Singularity's technology trends drive the global economy to
converge towards a more final state. This crisis represents a
tumultuous transition towards economic convergence, but may spiral out
of control, especially without cooperation.

# Eight Major Factors

This is an overview of eight major factors that act as components to
the development and outcome of the crisis. These factors are not
listed in order of significance because the system is non-linear and
these factors effects, dynamics and magnitudes are thus
interdependent.

## (1) [Geoeconomic Dynamics of Automation and Unemployment](#geoeconomic-dynamics-of-automation-and-unemployment)

## (2) Policy Response: Strategy, Perception, Timing and Pacing

## (3) Commodity Markets and Resource Distribution

## (4) Technology's Impact on Commodity Markets

## (5) Distribution and Control of Foreign Direct Investment

## (6) Forex Dynamics and Foreign Currency Reserve Distribution

## (7) Distribution of Debt

## (8) Population Flux, Entitlements and Median Income

# [Geoeconomic Dynamics of Automation and Unemployment](#geoeconomic-dynamics-of-automation-and-unemployment)

- this factor drives the common person's response, their change in
  economic circumstance and their overall perception of the crisis
  - from the perspective of a behavioral economist, this factor is the
    most important in predicting the common person's response, both
    financially and politically, as well as their needs at the time
    the crisis begins unfolding in their nation or region.

- this contributes towards dynamics which invert globalization's
  impact on regional manufactoring, while decimating labor markets.
  - That is, American manufacturing is more likely to move home, but
    that doesn't restore lost jobs or the disrupted wealth
    distribution that accompanied globalization.
  - The impact on manufacturing, in particular, is constrained to the
    phenomenological limits of artificial intelligence, 3D printing
    and nano-technology.

- how does this impact developing nations?
  - what does it mean for a rising china?
  - what does it mean for America and the EU?

# [Policy Response: Strategy, Perception, Timing and Pacing]()

- questions to answer:
  - what policy responses are available? UBI and national service
  - what policy responses are appealing?
  - delineate the explanation along economic, sociocultural and
    geopolitical dimensions
    - which options are appealing for developed/underdeveloped
      economies?
    - how does the economic state of a nation and its citizens
      affect the policy?

- (every major government's need for a policy response)
- the choice between UBI and national service
  - the costs/benefits of each will differ depending on how
    developed the nation's economy is.
    - highly developed with lots of cash: UBI will seem more appealing
    -
  - the governmental structure will partially determine policy
    - authoritarian governments can more easily compel people to
      conform to the policy response

  - in a democracy, the people's attitudes to being compelled to work
    - highly liberal? the inverse of kennedy's maxim prevails
      - ask what the government can do to fix your problems or bitch
        about it

- democracy's are highly disadvantaged because they cannot compel
  people to contribute to concerted economic strategy
  - additionally, the people are easily subverted against themselves
    by foreign powers.

# [Commodity Markets and Resource Distribution]()

- the global economy becomes resource-bound.
  - this defining trait becomes more pronounced as we approach the
    singularity and the next technology plateau.
    - (fabrication technology's impact on supply chains)
    - this moves manufacturing closer to the consumer.
  - more proficient fabrication leads to more self-reliant economies,
    assuming they have the intellectual property and ability to build
    out industrial capacity

- higher commodity prices (lead to resources from space)
  - resources from the arctic, seafloor and space.

- these trends in commodity markets contribute to dynamics in demand
  - what technology is capable of delivering determines what resources
    nations need and thereby determines demand.
  - (conflict theory)

# [Technology's Impact on Commodity Markets]()

- e.g. a gradual shift away from fossil fuels and towards renewables

- The majority of uncapitalized opportunity in the next few decades
  centers around materials science and the resulting intellectual
  property.
  -

# [Distribution and Control of Foreign Direct Investment]()

- technology's impact on globally allocated capital
  - It's cheaper to manufacture closer to the consumer. Doing so
    benefits the economy of the consumer while retaining competitive
    advantage and control over intellectual property related to
    industrial processes.
  - This could drive a minor modality that leads to divestment of
    foreign direct investment, but it's one of many dynamics.

#### International Regulation of Supply Chains

- The effect on supply chain dimension of the American & Global
  Economies
  - reference arguments from article on regulating conflict minerals
    trade in african nations
  - elaborate on mechanics/dynamics of shifting supply chains
    - especially in the context of novel materials/fabrication tech

- The interantional regulation of supply chains will constrain
  investment behavior... (include this here?)
- Conflict minerals help finance destabilization and prevent economic
  development

- There is a fantastic Harvard ILJ article on this specific issue,
  which is absolutely fascinating. In terms of novel-information
  density (i.e. the percentage of content new to me) this single
  article may have accelerated my general level of knowledge more than
  any other writing I've ever consumed.
  - that is, this single article stimulated my own imagination more
    than anything else I have ever read and did so in terms of each:
    - number/kind of specific fields covered and the quantity/quality
      of new information
  - that International Supply Chain article isn't the only such
    article I've consumed in the past 3 months which has accelerated
    my acquisition of knowledge to personally unknown levels.
- TODO: what about it?
  - how is it difficult? how does international supply chain
    regulation affect cost structures, the incentivization of
    corporate behavior and foreign direct investment?

# [Forex Dynamics and Foreign Currency Reserve Distribution]()

- I need to know more about forex trading and foriegn currency
  dynamics to understand how this factor plays into the crisis.
  - However, I do know that there will be strong political influences
    that emerge as a result of forex markets, foreign currency reserve
    distribution and foreign debt holdings.
  - I also know that the Dollar's status as the world's reserve
    currency will critically cause the emergent political influences
    to be stronger and different in quality than for other currencies

- effects of inflation on currency markets and the behavioral dynamics
  of groups with significant currency reserves and debt holdings.
  - groups with significant US debt holdings or US currency reserves
    will attempt to influence American policy to suit their interests.
    - we should be willing to cooperate, but prioritize our own
      interests first through forward-thinking economic policy.

- effects on lending: willingness of institutions to lend
  - why would institutions lend with low-interest if they are
    expecting inflation or significant forex value fluctuations?

- sustainability of credit-driven policy

# [Distribution of Debt]()

What happened during the 2008 housing crisis? The subprime housing
markets crashed and the lost revenue streams thereof triggered
cascading effects through the global banking system. But how did the
subprime housing markets crash? An economic downturn that impacted the
riskiest mortgage assets first.

Quite simply, there were people with mortgages who couldn't pay their
bills. This require shifts in allocation of liquidity to cover the
lost revenue streams, which triggered recession and thereby increased
unemployment, leading to more lost revenue streams in the housing
sector.

- The distribution of debt among consumers and businesses in America
  is critical. The greater the unmet debt burden, the greater the
  effects of such a crisis are to be when they emerge.
  - So, even if there is some policy like UBI that provides the
    *median income*, there will still be many people unemployed above
    the median income who are unable to pay their mortgages and debts.
  - As it intersects with the income distribution of the newly
    unemployed, this distribution of real asset debt (houses and
    cars), then triggers an impulse to sell amoung owners and mortgage
    holders. If you don't know what happens next, I'm not sure why
    you're still reading and I would guess that you're a liberal who
    decides their vote presented only with emotional arguments.

- Remember, in the best case, the government can maintain the median
  income, but without empire, it's impossible for the government to
  drive this median income up.
  - Are you a leftist who rails against American imperialism?
  - ...

# [Entitlements, Median Income and Population Flux]()

> "Ask not what your government can do for you, but what you can do
> for your government."

What is the government obligated to provide to each citizen? What is
the government obligated to provide for non-citizens and illegal
immigrants? Did the government enact amnesty programs for illegal
immigrants? Did it do so because of a certain political party's
long-term strategy to use the votes to stay in power?

How much do people contribute to their regional or national economy in
return? How much can citizens who were formerly illegal immigrants be
expected to contribute to GDP and tax volume? So what is their net
contribution to the deficit? It should be expected to be higher than
that of legitimate citizens, though at most amnestees would account
for 5% of the population.

- But, at some point, we have to decide who is American and who is
  not. Who is our responsibility and who is not?
  - This is not in any way a distinction to be made on a racial or
    ethnic basis. Yet, we must decide who receives the benefits of
    American citizenship and who does not.
    - If the benefits are attractive, (describe people's response...)
  - This is a global crisis (expand...)

- Because the crisis inevitably results in inflation, this last factor
  determines the severity of a currency's contribution to disruption
  to forex markets.
  - in turn, this determines risk appetite and drives dynamics in
    deciding where to allocate foreign direct investment.
- Because the economic crisis cannot be lessened except through credit
  directly added to government balance sheets, the more spending that
  is required, the more credit a government will require.
  - Therefore, the more a government or party obligates itself to do
    and the more citizens it is obligated to provide for, the less it
    can do with the same amount of deficit.
- When this deficit is financed through credit, this furthers
  inflation. So therefore, the more people and the more entitlements,
  the faster these macroeconomic dynamics become toxic.

- There are major differences in how this kind of credit-driven policy
  affects the currency and behavioral economic dynamics.
  - In the nineties and the aughts, the credit stimulated the economy
    through the housing markets, which is a necessary means towards
    promoting home ownership. Therefore, if one manipulates housing
    prices and other aspects of the real-estate market, one can
    increase GDP and tax volume artificially through credit, when the
    credit is seen as necessary and sustainable.
  - When one begins to infuse a deficit ridden government with cash,
    it is not seen in the same light by creditors, investors and other
    backing nations.
    - The effects in floating your economy are, on the surface,
      similar, but this latter method is unsustainable. At this point,
      you are about as close to literally printing money as you can
      get if you're in charge of the world's reserve currency.

# [Sorry Ms. Swift, We Are Not Out of the Woods Yet]()

Just because the economy seems to have recovered from the 2008 crisis
doesn't mean that we're out of the woods yet. We need forward-looking
economic policy determined by where the global economy is
heading. Amid the uncertainty imposed by these eight factors, each
strongly defining how the crisis unfolds, the successful policy is not
reactive, it is proactive. It must drive trends and mitigate
uncertainty, while being strongly defined by exigent trends and the
Singularity's assymptotic finality of economic convergence.

- Please note that I don't have the data or expertise to make solid
  recommendations.
  - counter-intuitive nature of economic policy

### [Policy Must Account For Domestic and Foreign Political Reaction](#policy-must-account-for-domestic-and-foreign-political-reaction)

Policy must also expect the domestic and foreign political reaction,
as well as the tendency of the masses to be completey unaware of the
economic reasoning behind policy. Policy must also attempt to
construct the proper narrative moving forward, so that citizenry
living in democracy actively support it.

### [Avoid Hacking Economics for Short-Term Gain](#avoid-hacking-economics-for-short-term-gain)

When we hack the economy to optimize macroeconomic indicators, we
often delude ourselves into believing optimal indicators imply optimal
allocation of wealth.

That is, the common person assumes that the cash flowing around the
economy reflects strong economic fundamentals, when instead Keynesian
economics allows "even out" economic turbulence by stimulating the
economy with central banking. The credit injected into the economy, in
turn, promotes economic growth. So when there's not enough liquidity
in the system, one uses central banks to pump it in.

- There's nothing inherently wrong with Keynesian economics, but
  there's a tendency for these policies to go horribly wrong. If we
  pump credit into the economy, but don't invest it in the right
  places, it's going make everything worse later on.

- We need to avoid the tendancy to hack the economy using Keynesian
  economics.
  - For example, the factors that led to the housing crisis were
    essentially an attempt to hack macroeconomic indicators to drive
    consumerism, maintain GDP growth and promote an artificial sense
    of prosperity that would lead to high spending.
    - the flood of cheap credit into domestic industries such as
      construction floated these industries and kept a healthy flux of
      liquidity flowing through the economy. this artificially
      increased employment, etc.
    - but if we are "banking" on these same strategies to float
      macroeconomics via injection of liquidity/credit, the more we
      depend on them, the greater this future crisis will be

### [Strategic Allocation of Liquidity in the 2020's](#strategic-allocation-of-liquidity-in-the-2020s)

  - We must assume that we have a finite amount of liquidity flux to
    invest in a platform for economic development before unemployment
    ends up restricting liquidity.
    - We need an economic engine that harnesses the differential in
      geoeconomic distribution of unemployment.
      - This sounds complicated but simply means that automation
        occurs in developed economies first, where the economic
        platform exists, but there is economic opportunity in
        developing that platform elsewhere.
      - So we can assume that developed economies will have a need to
        identify and compete over economic opportunity abroad.
  - (explain how this correlates to proper allocation of capital)

### [Interest Rates And Federal Reserve Policy](#interest-rates-and-federal-reserve-policy)

Interest rates will affect lending behavior, which can increase or
reduce the total consumer and corporate debt. When unemployment spikes
as a result of automation, these revenue streams must be accounted for
by diverting liquidity. So, if the total amount of debt that must be
accounted for is lower after a decade of lower interest rates, this
means less liquidity will need to be diverted later on.

It's not that a slowdown in lending via lower interest rates will be
necessary. It's that we need to make wiser investment decisions that
weigh the long-term economic consequences much more heavily than the
short-term. Lending institutions cannot simply conduct themselves with
the next quarter's results in mind.

### [International Economic Development](#international-economic-development)

In terms of maximizing profits, American and multinational banks will
almost certainly tend to avoid developing markets because of the
higher risk and lower returns, but if they do so, this doesn't
establish an economic platform that America can use to replace
liquidity in the 2030's.

### Limiting Effects on Employment and Median Income

- (maximization of launchpad time)
  - by taxing automation, we can limit the

### Flexible Management of Existing Debt

- neither UBI/ELR accounts for consumers' need to maintain existing
  cash flows
  - therefore, consumers with jobs in those industries that are
    automated can no longer pay their mortgages, etc
  - this is another source of potential systemtic economic collapse,
    given high consumer debt appetite and poorly managed credit
  - make the home & garden channel illegal
  - encourage higher payment of existing debt, while the economy
    permits (except this is terrible in a consumer driven economy)

### Enslavement by Debt and Desire

- this all leads to a massive depression.
  - this is unlike any depression in history because, for those at the
    top, there is high growth and economic opportunity is plentiful.
  - but, for everyone else, there is no economic opportunity, except
    as artificially provided by the government or those with liquidity
    and a penchant for unnecessary spending.
  - in this depresson, people owe massive sums of debt that the
    economy (does not allow) them to pay. so, our credit institutions
    systemically stagnate. in severe cases, the borrower is unable to
    pay even the interest on their debts.
- the people examining UBI closely enough to spend millions on studies
  could not possibly be totally ignorant of this.

### Even With Inflationary Measures, There is Still Systemic Collapse

- The easy way out is by financing government policy, either UBI or
  some national service, using central banking.
  - Doing so causes inflation and lessens the magnitude of the
    depression.
    - This is because existing debts are easier to pay in the midst of
      inflation.
    - Think this strategy is popular with the financial elite or with
      countries who hold large quantities of dollars in reserve?
      - yeh ok. it's not. so think again, liberals. and maybe shut the
        hell up online while you're at it.
  - ultimately either strategy requires financing via debt through the
    Fed. However, the injection of liquidity is neither.

- because the only way to lessen the magnitude of the crisis is via
  inflation, investment in gold/silver is a good bet.
  - As this approaches, I'd recommend 1% of investment in gold/silver
    per 1% in unemployment.

### Student Loan Reform is Reasonable

- The actual value of college education is much lower than the price.
  Especially looking forward, one can see that there is less incentive
  to become indebted for a college degree.

  - it is impossible to avoid a convergent economy, where the wealth
    converges into an asymptotically smaller number of hands
  - garbage in, garbage out
    - if computers augment our ability to think, achieve and function,
      then we need ...

### Reform of Higher Education is Preferable



### Policy Must Account for Disinformation in the Age of Social Media

We must keep in mind the shifting nature of information amid social
media, as well as the difficulty in avoiding complete communist
revolution. Hyperconnectedness and the light-speed velocity at which
ideas travel on the internet disrupt our ability to discern
causality. That is, no one can determine cause and effect in political
or sociocultural affairs. Therefore, it's anyone's game when
constructing a narrative.

Far left radicals will encourage the pursuit of poorly thought out
policy that causes the bottom to fall out and they will harness the
political momentum that results from economic chaos. They will
distract the masses from understanding the true causes of the economic
crisis, favoring to ideologically place the blame on capitalism. While
it may be a herculean task, I recommend scorching each neck of that
hydra with a blazing firebrand. The more radical leftists will not
hesitate to use each economic setback as a means to gain ground while
setting us back further. It will distract us from executing a coherent
strategy.

### Revolution is Expensive and the Opportunity Cost is Unacceptable

Groups planning to capitalizing on the economic chaos by rewriting the
narrative to undermine the American economic system are leading us
right off a cliff. Revolution involves transfer of power and of
assets, either legally, nomininally or just functionally. That's how
Marxist revolution works.

It's not a matter of opinion. There will be economic crisis and any
friction or disunity in America's reaction is unacceptable. America
must unite and we cannot tolerate dissension or we will end up ceding
our own economic interests to our enemies at the culmination of human
history. America underneath the foot of our enemies will be
unrecognizable. You will not receive the social programs you are
looking for because our government, with a ruined currency, will not
be able to afford them. So, if you disrupt our fountain of prosperity
or our path forward, America will destroy you.

We completely anticipate a
[fifth column](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifth_column) to
emerge. If warranted, we will funnel antagonistic forces within
America into a single movement and we will break your back. At that
point, you might say that we are counting on it. The economic tensions
will need someone to blame and, with data science, we can determine
those advocating to undermine American interests. We will scapegoat
communists as an Ouroborosian alchemical cost to galvanize America, in
the name of safeguarding our interests.

As we approach the Singularity and phase out the workforce, Marxism's
semiotic basis of symbols related to work and pride in work begin to
break down. Your pattern language no longer functions for mind control
because the symbols upon which it is built become increasingly
irrelevant to human experience.

### [What Side Do You Want To Be On Anyways?](#what-side-do-you-want-to-be-on-anyways)

This is a potentially currency-breaking economic crisis. China, Russia
and others already have plans in place to replace the American Dollar
as the world's reserve currency. It's called
[BRICS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BRICS). If you believe that life
will proceed swimmingly after our economy and currency are broken, a
new world order of Chinese hegemony is established, and that none of
this will interfere with America's ability to implement expansive
social programs or protect foreign policy interests, then you might
have a severe head injury.


