---
title: "International Trends 2020: The Automation Crisis"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: "Dear God, Please Protect Us From Liberal Economic Policy"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Artificial intelligence, fabriction and other technology drive
unemployment. High rates of unemployment drastically lower median
income in developed nations. These economies have higher debt
saturation on consumers, which ostensibly enables faster growth, but
this dependency on already established revenue streams leads to
greater surface area for systemic risk. These higher levels of debt
saturation lead to more severely constricted liquidity in situations
of lowered employment. The lost liquidity leads to fewer new
investments and less capability to develop economic opportunities to
rise oneself out of crisis."
---

#### &#x2605; [Climate Change](/posts/2017-02-28-international-trends-2020-climate-change.html) &#x2605; [The Smart Grid](/posts/2017-02-28-international-trends-2020-the-smart-grid.html) &#x2605; [Universal Basic Income](/posts/2017-06-05-international-trends-2020-universal-basic-income.html) &#x2605; The Automation Crisis &#x2605;

## [Inevitable Unemployment and the Resulting Liquidity Crunch](#inevitable-unemployment-and-the-resulting-liquidity-crunch)

#### &#x03D5; [The Capacity of the Crisis to Elude Understanding](#the-capacity-of-the-crisis-to-elude-understanding)

#### &#x03D5; [America Must Guard the Economic Status Quo](#america-must-guard-the-economic-status-quo)

#### &#x03D5; [Why Is This Crisis Different?](#why-is-this-crisis-different)

#### &#x03D5; [The Strongest System-Wide Dynamics in this Crisis](#the-strongest-system-wide-dynamics-in-this-crisis)

## [Ten Major Factors](#ten-major-factors)

#### &#x03D5; [Geoeconomic Dynamics of Automation and Unemployment](#geoeconomic-dynamics-of-automation-and-unemployment)

#### &#x03D5; [Policy Response: Strategy, Perception, Timing and Pacing](#policy-response-strategy-perception-timing-and-pacing)

#### &#x03D5; [Commodity Markets and Resource Distribution](#commodity-markets-and-resource-distribution)

#### &#x03D5; [Technology's Impact on Commodity Markets](#technologys-impact-on-commodity-markets)

#### &#x03D5; [Distribution and Control of Foreign Direct Investment](#distribution-and-control-of-foreign-direct-investment)

#### &#x03D5; [Forex Dynamics and Foreign Currency Reserve Distribution](#forex-dynamics-and-foreign-currency-reserve-distribution)

#### &#x03D5; [Bond Markets React Poorly to Inflation](#bond-markets-react-poorly-to-inflation)

#### &#x03D5; [Distribution of Debt](#distribution-of-debt)

#### &#x03D5; [Entitlements, Median Income and Population Flux](#entitlements-median-income-and-population-flux)

#### &#x03D5; [Unpredictable Geoeconomic Trends Via Climate Change](#unpredictable-geoeconomic-trends-via-climate-change)

## [We Are Not Out of the Woods Yet](#we-are-not-out-of-the-woods-yet)

#### &#x03D5; [Policy Must Account For Domestic and Foreign Political Reaction](#policy-must-account-for-domestic-and-foreign-political-reaction)

#### &#x03D5; [Counting on Downward CPI Pressure is Wishful Thinking](#counting-on-downward-cpi-pressure-is-wishful-thinking)

#### &#x03D5; [Avoid Hacking Economics for Short-Term Gain](#avoid-hacking-economics-for-short-term-gain)

#### &#x03D5; [Strategic Allocation of Liquidity in the 2020's](#strategic-allocation-of-liquidity-in-the-2020s)

#### &#x03D5; [Interest Rates And Federal Reserve Policy](#interest-rates-and-federal-reserve-policy)

#### &#x03D5; [International Economic Development](#international-economic-development)

#### &#x03D5; [Currency Market Stabalization](#currency-market-stabalization)

#### &#x03D5; ['Ethereum for IRL Labor' as a Currency Stabilization Mechanism](#ethereum-for-irl-labor-as-a-currency-stabilization-mechanism)

#### &#x03D5; [Flexible Management of Existing Debt](#flexible-management-of-existing-debt)

#### &#x03D5; [Enslavement by Debt and Desire](#enslavement-by-debt-and-desire)

#### &#x03D5; [Student Load Reform and Innovation in Higher Education](#student-loan-reform-and-innovation-in-higher-edcation)

#### &#x03D5; [Even With Inflationary Measures, There is Still Systemic Collapse](#even-with-inflationary-measures-there-is-still-systemic-collapse)

#### &#x03D5; [Gold and Silver](#gold-and-silver)

#### &#x03D5; [Policy Must Account for Disinformation in the Age of Social Media](#policy-must-account-for-disinformation-in-the-age-of-social-media)

#### &#x03D5; [Revolution is Expensive and the Opportunity Cost is Unacceptable](#revolution-is-expensive-and-the-opportunity-cost-in-unacceptable)

#### &#x03D5; [What Side Do You Want To Be On Anyways?](#what-side-do-you-want-to-be-on-anyways)

> None of this should be taken as investment advice, of course. Any
> assertions I make should be backed up by data and further analysis.
> I have more questions than answers, but the more I look into this,
> the worse I feel about it.

<a name="inevitable-unemployment-and-the-resulting-liquidity-crunch" />

# [Inevitable Unemployment and the Resulting Liquidity Crunch](#inevitable-unemployment-and-the-resulting-liquidity-crunch)

There is an economic crisis brewing. As automation drives
unemployment, governments will be forced to respond with policy:
either Universal Basic Income or Employer of Last Resort. Regardless
of
[the economic and sociocultural merits of UBI versus ELR](/posts/2017-06-05-international-trends-2020-universal-basic-income.html),
neither policy is sufficient to stave off unemployment's effects on
revenue streams to banks. In turn, this triggers several downstream
effects, including a major reduction in liquidity available to banks
and a major slowdown in consumer and corporate lending. These effects
come at a poor time.

To cope with the unemployment and economic turbulence, developed
nations are compelled to borrow money to prop up the economy. The
greater the scope of entitlement programs, the more the currency must
be diluted in response. With numbers pulled directly out of my ass, by
2030, America could reach 20-100% annual growth of the national debt,
dependent on rates of unemployment and tax volume. Imagine the effect
that would have on currency markets, economic development and lending
institutions.

<a name="the-capacity-of-the-crisis-to-elude-understanding" />

### [The Capacity of the Crisis to Elude Understanding](#the-capacity-of-the-crisis-to-elude-understanding)

The upcoming crisis is unlike any before. Even though it shares many
of the same components, it is fundamentally different in ways that
will elude many economists. I do not have the data or the expertise to
predict how this will unfold, nor does anyone. It is not necessarily
disastrous for America or the global economy, but there is significant
potential for disruption. Again, it is not necessarily the magnitude
of the crisis which is worrying, but the acceleration in economic
trends along with qualitative aspects of the crisis that will cause itq
to elude understanding, triggering poor reaction among nations.

<a name="america-must-guard-the-economic-status-quo" />

### [America Must Guard the Economic Status Quo](#america-must-guard-the-economic-status-quo)

It's critical to keep in mind that America dominates the economic
status quo now. Therefore, all other powers have a greater incentive
to disrupt the status quo than we do in maintaining it. For them, it
is easier to disrupt than it is for us to maintain. Foreign interests
and information warfare have subverted American leftists into
attacking the fundamentals of American prosperity. They don't realize
that it is American prosperity that provides the possibility of
expansive social programs. Without these economic interests intact,
the question is no longer whether we should finance entitlement
programs, but whether we can at all.

<a name="why-is-this-crisis-different" />

### [Why Is This Crisis Different?](#why-is-this-crisis-different)

There isn't enough liquidity and wealth distribution for people to
keep up with their debt. Therefore, this is a deflationary depression
where inflationary measures are appealing to inject liquidity into the
economy and relieve unemployment. Such inflationary measures include
UBI and ELR. In doing so, the finance of budget deficits both with and
without credit drives inflation. These contribute to systemic
instability in global currency markets. But unlike most depressions,
various means of production should remain elevated through the use of
technology. Because of automation's inversion of labor markets, this
furthers income distribution disparity, since the profits fall into
singularly fewer hands. The 21st century economy rapidly converges
into the control of fewer because of the nature of information and
intellectual property.

If we don't play our cards right, constricted liquidity implies that
the outlook on economic expansion is bleak, so it cannot be assumed
that increased profits will lead to increased tax volume to finance
the governmental policy response. In this case, increased tax rates
will also be insufficient. The liquidity to invest in smart-grid
infrastructure and the development of emerging markets will be
restricted. Further complicating matters, nations often respond to
depressionary crises with warfare to artificially stimulate of
economic activity and expansion. This creates geopolitical instability
at the same time as global economic crisis.

The Singularity's technology trends drive the global economy to
converge towards a more final state. This crisis represents a
tumultuous transition towards economic convergence, but may spiral out
of control, especially without cooperation.

<a name="the-strongest-system-wide-dynamics" />

### [The Strongest System-Wide Dynamics](#the-strongest-system-wide-dynamics-in-this-crisis)

Artificial intelligence, fabriction and other technology drive
unemployment. High rates of unemployment drastically lower median
income in developed nations. These economies have higher debt
saturation on consumers, which ostensibly enables faster growth, but
this dependency on already established revenue streams leads to
greater surface area for systemic risk. These higher levels of debt
saturation lead to more severely constricted liquidity in situations
of lowered employment. The lost liquidity leads to fewer new
investments and less capability to develop economic opportunities to
rise oneself out of crisis.

As opposed to other crises, restoring income distribution cannot be
assumed to be possible through new employment opportunities. The
employment will never be restored. Therefore, social programs must be
sustained through high tax volume via highly profitable private &
state enterprise. That which cannot be supported through enterprise
must be borrowed or even literally printed by the government. However
it can be provided, the people will be asking for it and expecting
more of it. High levels of unemployment lead to lots of idle people
who vent their unrest on the internet and demand more expansive
programs.

The dependency on expansive social programs, debt-backed or not, leads
to currency stability issues. This resulting inflation leads to poor
performance in bond markets, which impedes debt security options for
central banking. In the past, currency dynamics were mostly restricted
to a small number of currencies at the same time in the global
system. Yet, here, you have these disruptive dynamics occuring
system-wide. Because of that, there is a high likelihood of several
simultaneous positive feedback loops in forex markets. These multiply
turbulence and cause massive amounts of wealth to evaporate. These
forex dynamics and massive redistributions of wealth will strongly
shape world politics.

All of these factors can lead to war, but the unpredictable, global
currency dynamics in particular. War & unrest lead to more of
both. These negatively impact the climate, fueling unpredictable
changes in agriculture and water availability, thereby influencing
real estate markets. Unpredictability in itself leads to behavior to
anticipate & mitigate unpredictability. Addressing climate change
requires limiting economic development through government spending and
diversion of liquidity.

Technology changes commodity markets and demand for resources. Those
with broader portfolios can spead out their risk amoung more foreign
direct investments, currency holdings and asset holdings. High
utilization rates on capital available to investors could limit
exposure to systemic problems in the currency markets.

<a name="ten-major-factors" />

# [Ten Major Factors](#ten-major-factors)

This is an overview of ten major factors that act as components to
the development and outcome of the crisis. These factors are not
listed in order of significance because the system is non-linear and
these factors effects, dynamics and magnitudes are thus
interdependent.

<a name="geoeconomic-dynamics-of-automation-and-unemployment" />

### [Geoeconomic Dynamics of Automation and Unemployment](#geoeconomic-dynamics-of-automation-and-unemployment)

From the perspective of a behavioral economist, this factor is the
most important in predicting the common person's response, both
financially and politically, as well as their needs at the time the
crisis begins unfolding in their nation and region. The geoeconomic
dynamics drives their change in economic circumstance, their overall
perception of the crisis and thus their political reaction to it.

How do the trends in employment differ for developed and developing
economies? What does it mean for a rising China and its economic
competition with the West? What does it mean for America and the EU?

The geoeconomic dynamics contribute towards dynamics which invert
globalization's impact on manufactoring, without restoring American
labor markets. That is, American manufacturing is more likely to move
home, but that doesn't restore lost jobs or the disrupted wealth
distribution that accompanied globalization.

How does the gradual impact to income distribution progress over
various regions of the US? Can the progression of unemployment be
accurately anticipated?

The impact on manufacturing, in particular, is constrained to the
phenomenological limits of artificial intelligence, 3D printing and
nano-technology. These are bounded by complexity theory and methods of
fabrication. For example, the nano-revolution is impossible when
materials like graphene and buckyballs can only be produced in
laboratory quantities.

There are many business innovation opportunities that become available
once vehicles and transportation is automated. Once the policy
groundwork has been laid for automated driving, products like Otto can
overtake product delivery both near and far. Automated driving will
disrupt retail as well as delivery services like Instacart, but there
is a several-year lag in between the federal policy implementation and
the development of innovation based on it. As soon as this is policy
is determined and implemented, corporations will begin to restructure
themselves around it. Food can almost be automated from farm to table
and the existing grocery store retail space will almost entirely
become warehouse space for local distribution. The higher wages are,
the greater the incentive is for corporations to react faster. So,
after 2020, higher wage actually cause unemployment in low income
segments to accelerate.

![Pic/Link of Automatable Jobs Per Industry](/img/posts/2017-06-17-international-trends-2020-the-automation-crisis/automation-and-unemployment.jpg)

#### [@hnrklndbrg](https://twitter.com/hnrklndbrg)'s Graph Estimating the [Likelihood a Job Will Be Automated](http://www.marketwatch.com/story/this-chart-spells-out-in-black-and-white-just-how-many-jobs-will-be-lost-to-robots-2017-05-31)

The impact on white-collar jobs is dependent on the range and
complexity of tasks involved in each job type. Henrik Lindberg's chart
above predicts that many of these will be automated. Particularly
interesting are the management segments of the labor market, whose
demand will suffer upon logistic restructuring of the consumer-facing
segments of corporations. That is, retail employees are mostly laid
off, therefore, less direct and middle-management are required.

<a name="policy-response-strategy-perception-timing-and-pacing" />

### [Policy Response: Strategy, Perception, Timing and Pacing](#policy-response-strategy-perception-timing-and-pacing)

What policy responses are available? Mostly UBI and Employer of Last
Resort. When considering a policy response, the most important factor
is the path to transitioning into the policy. What transition paths
are available from where we are? What is the proper timing? How is the
policy legally formulated to offer malleability and redundancy in
timing the implementation? What are the opportunity costs?

What policy responses are appealing? The available and appealing
responses for major players should be delineated and evaluated upon
economic, sociocultural and geopolitical dimensions. In general, which
options are available for developed or underdeveloped economies? How
are failed states going to respond in their region? Will this force a
general contraction of soft/hard power via strong, developed states?
Or will the forced reliance on economic opportunitiy force states into
responding by projecting soft power? How does a rising China respond?
with the Belt and Road strategy for soft power?

Every government in a developed economy needs a policy response. The
more highly developed the economy, The sooner the resulting
unemployment and the higher that consumer and corporate debt holdings
will typically become. In its aggregate, poor central banking policy
across the globe will disrupt currency markets.

I've already written at length about the choice between UBI and
ELR. The latter represents a job guarantee and, depending on what that
entails and how it's implemented can lead to cost savings, where
people share resources. However, both represent a massive strain on
the federal government and result in strong new dynamics affecting
domestic economic behavior.

The costs and benefits of each will differ depending on how developed
the nation's economy is. Highly developed with lots of cash: UBI will
seem more appealing. Highly developed economies with corporations that
don't remain globally competitive results in a strong downward
pressure on tax volume.

The UBI proponents seem to think that everything will be fine if
enough factors of their choosing remain stable, while other factors
that lend credit to their ideas are adopted in mass. In a
fundamentally different economy that behaves in unexpected ways, how
can we be sure that we can influence or mitigate unwanted dynamics. we
cannot leave this up to chance. Ihis contradicts occam's razor. you're
assuming that random chance will land in your favor every single time
for dozens of different factors, the effect of which cannot be
predicted.

Maybe we should pray that the economy selectively mitigates all the
negative sources of change while millions of people voluntarily change
their behavior posivitly without compelling incentivization to do so:
dear God, please protect us from liberal economy policy when it fails
catastrophically.

#### Monetary Policy

A critical measure for domestic policy is the size of monetary supply
in relation to annual federal deficits. Inflation-driven economic
policy is highly unsustainable and will tank the credit ratings of
nations. Since 2006, the Fed has ceased publishing the M3 money supply
numbers.

#### The [M2 money supply](https://ycharts.com/indicators/categories/monetary) measure is at approximately $13.5 Trillion

![M2 Money Supply](/img/posts/2017-06-17-international-trends-2020-the-automation-crisis/m2-money-supply.png)

Please tell me more about how inflation is not a concern when poor
bond markets reduce the Fed's capacity to influence debt markets. This
occurs at the same time that we'll need to depend on foreign debt to
maintain large deficits, since the effects will ripple back through
the Fed into the US Treasury bond markets. Because the national debt
is high and it's likely to continue growing, this means foreign powers
have more influence than ever over US policy.

#### Tax Policy

Drastic changes in tax policy are required, both to finance a policy
we can't afford and to offset the loss of personal income taxes via
unemployment. About 50% of the budget comes from individual income
taxes.

#### [2015 United States Budget](http://federal-budget.insidegov.com/l/118/2015#revenues&s=1cNiL&st=0RnKTf)

![2015 US Tax Revenues](/img/posts/2017-06-17-international-trends-2020-the-automation-crisis/federal-tax-revenue.png)

These revenue streams via personal income tax will mostly be replaced
on par with unemployment. In and of itself, that require major tax
policy changes, just to sustain current federal spending levels.  with
UBI, each of these revenue streams is offset with the cost of
providing a citizen UBI. With 250 million adult citizens, that would
be an extra $2.5T to the budget for a $10,000 UBI payment. So, given
30% unemployment, not only would the government lose ~30% of the
individual income tax revenue streams, but it must provide a service
that costs 2 times as much as citizens paid in taxes in 2015.
Further, to cover the difference, corporations would need to pay six
times as much in total tax volume.

> GLHF

#### Automation Tax Policy

Taxing automation is a good update to policy, but how do we fairly
determine what is taxably automated labor? How do we do so without
overly burdening tax policy and the resulting bureaucratic
death-by-legalism? Does it require many difficult-to-understand,
ever-shifting, impossible-to-anticipate changes in regulation? I
admit, taxing automation is a good idea because simply raising tax
rates would destroy small businesses.

Can we ever assume that enough tax volume would be produced to cover
other domestic policy responses, like UBI or ELR? I don't think so,
but I'd love to evaluate ideas for doing so.

**Update:**
[Should Robots Pay Taxes? Tax Policy in the Age of Automation](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2932483)
is a great article from the Harvard Law & Policy Review that explores
the complexities of this issue. A fair & balanced approach to taxing
corporations must be properly structured legally. The updated policy
must be at least revenue neutral if we are to have any hope of
sustaining current government expenditures. Many suggestions I have
seen are either overbearing, requiring too many details, or would not
work in practice because the taxation would simply be evaded. The
challenge in identifying a fair and practical tax policy is immense.

#### Popular Response to Policy

America is a democracy with a developed economy and decades of
prosperity. What are the people's attitudes to being compelled to work
harder for less? What triggered globalization to shift labor overseas?
Highly liberal? The inverse of Kennedy's maxim prevails: ask what the
government can do to fix your problems or protest.

#### Compelling Popular Response to Policy and Coordinating a Well-Executed Strategy

Democracies are highly disadvantaged in this regard because they
cannot compel people to contribute to concerted economic
strategy. Additionally, the people are easily subverted against
themselves by foreign powers. Thus, economic and information warfare
become increasingly appealing to adversaries.

Democracies with decentralized communication will find it much tougher
to control narrative. They will be less able to ensure that the
population responds with an aggregate force of unity instead of mostly
cancelled-out net potential for change. The slower parliamentary and
procedural processes in democracies will become more vulnerable to
external subversion as well. We just experienced this with potential
Russian interference in the election.

Regardless of whether we need authoritarian measures to get it, we
need tighter control of information in general. Hopefully we don't
need to resort to such measures, but encouraging popular action via
patriotism is the only such mechanism I can think of to compensate for
the lack of centralized agency determining action. That is, to compel
the coordination required in a well-executed strategy, this requires
more constricted agency determining action throughout the political or
economic system. A smaller set of nodes making a more expansive set of
decisions is needed, while the other nodes willingly cooperate and
anticipate shifting intent. As the American and European systems are
currently operating, *no action results* because all change is
effectively cancelled out by the stagnant momentum of conflicting
interests and intention.

This is why authoritarian countries are at an advantage here. They can
leverage control over information to mitigate the range of negative
impact resulting from mixed messaging and foreign
influence. Unraveling parts net neutrality may be helpful in this
regard, though I'm not sure it counters other negative consequences of
doing so.

When debate over domestic policy is decided upon primarily emotional
arguments citing anecdotal needs to help the poor, how do we assess
sustainability of a developed nations' credit-driven policies?
Reliance on inflation-driven policy can be mitigated through higher
tax volume obtained through highly competitive enterprise. Still, in a
closed system, one nation's economic expansion comes at the cost of
another's lost opportunities to do the same.

<a name="commodity-markets-and-resource-distribution" />

### [Commodity Markets and Resource Distribution](#commodity-markets-and-resource-distribution)

How does geographic distribution of resources precipitate conflict or
commerce and how does it alter the fortunes of nations? How do
resources from space alter the equation? And if the primary tier of
resource streams from space are controlled by private entities, how
does this change resource distribution, its pricing and
intergovernmental dynamics? Some space-commerce corporations will form
transnational entities which parallel governments. This should provide
them with the option to selectively influence commodity price dynamics
in sufficient quantities. This ability will be mitigated without a
monopoly on the business platform for operation in space.

The global economy, which would otherwise be energy-bound becomes
resource-bound. This defining trait becomes more pronounced as we
approach the singularity and the next technology plateau. It's
propensity to define dynamics in commodity markets depends on the
functional limits of fabrication technology. What is clear is that
more proficient fabrication leads to more self-reliant economies,
assuming they have the intellectual property and ability to build out
industrial capacity. Energy is required to offset entropy of starting
materials and industrial capacity is required to offset the production
time required for fabrication. (i.e. 3D printing and nanotech are
slow, therefore more industrial capacity is required to offset time)

Supply chains then become more compact. Supply of ore and smelting
will always be required and probably most efficient closest to the
source. Fabrication most strongly impacts the intermediate tiers of
supply chains.

Fabrication results in simplified logistics that result in dynamically
allocatable resources. You simply ship the raw or ready-to-fab
resources and then dynamically allocate them as goods when need. It's
like a cross between logistics and lazy evaluation a la functional
programming. Dynamically processible, ready-to-fab materials are more
useful.

Overpopulation and geopolitical instability will generally tend to
rise commodity prices, thus prices and thus CPI, adding perceived
inflation to inflation generated by monetary policy.

<a name="technologys-impact-on-commodity-markets" />

### [Technology's Impact on Commodity Markets](#technologys-impact-on-commodity-markets)

Trends in commodity markets contribute to dynamics in demand. What
technology is capable of delivering determines what resources nations
need and thereby determines
demand. [Conflict theory](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/c/conflict-theory.asp)
describes how powerful groups and institutions respond to their
anticipated need for resources.

The majority of uncapitalized opportunity in the next few decades
centers around materials science and the resulting intellectual
property. Both the import of resources from space and these new
fabrication technologies will strongly disrupt commodity markets.

Once fabrication achieves specific technological functionality
milestones, it always becomes more efficient to manufacture closer to
the consumer. The greatest questions are simply when fabrication hits
these milestones, what the phenomonological results of each milestone
are and who controls the IP and production capacity when each
milestone is reached.

With a bit of phenomonological calculus applied to technology (i.e.
reflecting upon fabrication's *phenomological ideals*), one assumes you
feed raw materials and time to developed industrial capacity in order
to receive finished product. The philosophic result is that the limits
imposed by space begin to dissolve as the initial distribution of
minerals accross the earth become paradoxically increasingly more and
less determinant of economic trends.

That is all philosophical, of which (the ideal) is meaningless without
knowledge of chemistry, physics and engineering. In order to make any
rational predictions about the nature of fabrication technology
requires an intimate knowledge of materials science, computational
chemistry and many other fields.

What can be known simply is that there are physical limits imposed by
counteracting entropy to transform materials. These fundamental limits
cannot be surpassed and bound any solution. There are technological
limits imposed by the transient capabilities of fabrication. There are
computational limits of the fabrication processes. There are economic
limits, resulting from the distribution of resources. In terms of
economic trends leading up to 2050, the distribution of resources
bounds, predicts and determines human economic behavior. If it weren't
for the possibility of resources in space, the system would be
completely closed. Still, who controls the production and distribution
of materials from space?

Higher commodity prices lead to development of resources from the
arctic, the seafloor and space. Greenland and Antarctica are
incredibly mountainous and their minerals are [probably]
untouched. Furthermore, proficient fabrication technology will lead to
a renaissance in garbage. All those landfills in third world countries
become like gold mines ... maybe. Of course, we'll also see the
obligatory gradual shift away from fossil fuels and towards
renewables, as nations posture themselves for energy independence.

<a name="distribution-and-control-of-foreign-direct-investment" />

### [Distribution and Control of Foreign Direct Investment](#distribution-and-control-of-foreign-direct-investment)

New opportunities created by innovation in resource allocation
logistics and new manufactuing technologies will undoubtedly impact
globally allocated capital.

It becomes cheaper to manufacture closer to the consumer. Doing so
benefits the economy of the consumer while retaining competitive
advantage and control over intellectual property related to industrial
processes. After a critical mass of fabrication development, suddenly
the cost savings of centralized manufacturing are available everywhere
that the resources are. This could drive a minor modality that leads
to investment/divestment of capital in FDI, but it's one of many
dynamics.

In national emergencies, nationalization of FDI can result from
political unrest, but this usually doesn't happen in developed
economies with strong rule of law and property rights. In response to
international events or a currency crisis, there may be sale &
redistribution of FDI assets to mitigate & relieve some impact to
investment portfolios.

#### International Regulation of Supply Chains

The effect on how supply chains interact with the American and global
economies. The scope and flux of changes to supply chains will be
dependent on how quickly the intermediate links can retool their
industry for changes in technology. The intermediate and higher nodes
have the most agility to respond with more efficient business
processes, whereas the process flexibility of the lower nodes is
constrained to extraction & transformation of raw materials. The
processes of these nodes are more geographically bound. The import of
processed resources from space will not be so geographically bound,
but it will remain terrestrially expensive until we have space
elevators. New manufacturing techniques are enabled, required and
sometimes rendered inaccessible in space.

Conflict minerals help finance destabilization and prevent economic
development. Analytic data enables efficient reporting that enables
greater and more complete visibility into supply chains. The
interantional regulation of supply chains will determine investment
behavior. There is this Harvard ILJ article from 2015 on regulation of
international supply chains:
[Shining Light on Global Supply Chains](http://www.harvardilj.org/wp-content/uploads/562Sarfaty.pdf).
It is absolutely fascinating and, in terms of density of novel
information, this single article may have accelerate my general level
of knowledge more than any other writing I've ever consumed. It
stimulated my imagination on how logistics are coordinated for
manufacturing internationally, which opened up my understanding of how
these businesses are structured.

<a name="forex-dynamics-and-foreign-currency-reserve-distribution" />

### [Forex Dynamics and Foreign Currency Reserve Distribution](#forex-dynamics-and-foreign-currency-reserve-distribution)

Amidst the automation crisis, where most developed economies must
finance expansive entitlement spending with credit and printed
currency, this leads to turbulent and unpredictable forex
dynamics. These will be similar to those experienced around WW1 and
WW2. Strong political influences that emerge as a result of forex
markets, foreign currency reserve distribution and foreign debt
holdings.

Forex trading and automated methods in particular will tend to
capitalize on trends without appropriate understanding of the systemic
nature of these fluctuations and the political consequences of major
movements in the markets. These trading methodologies emphacize
short-term gains and losses. It is very difficult for traders to
operate in a systemic crisis. If inflationary monetary policy becomes
adopted globally in developed economies, traders will try to
capitalize on policy reports, commodity data and banking data, but
will likely not see the systemic problems emerging until it's too
late. Understanding how commodity prices, banking data and central
bank policy affects currency value and trading trends will be utilized
as a method of control by governments who will try to take advantage
of this crisis.

The Dollar's status as the world's reserve currency will critically
cause the emergent political influences to be stronger and different
in quality than for other currencies. Groups with significant US debt
holdings or US currency reserves will attempt to influence American
policy to suit their interests. We should be willing to cooperate, but
prioritize our own interests first through forward-thinking economic
policy.

We absolutely cannot solve this major economic crisis from the
2030's. We must work to mitigate these consequences moving forward.

#### [Basics of Fundamental Analysis in Forex Trading](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0ydm2K8m_8&list=PLnSelbHUB6GRzV7Qz9clluV0YnCSMxbGL)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t0ydm2K8m_8" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

The above is a great intro to trading tactics, as applied to Forex.

The effects of inflation on many currencies simulataneously will
result in stronger behavioral dynamics of groups with significant
currency reserves and debt holdings. High annual rates of inflation,
as measured by CPI or monetary supply, *will* result in unpredicable
turbulence in forex and debt markets. Depending on the policy
responses to high unemployment, the inflation trends in various
currencies and CPI's will occur at varying rates, which opens up
opportunity for speculation. Speculation on currencies will add to
the turbulence. Positive feedback loops in the turbulence of forex
markets, in the worst case, leads to runaway evaporation of wealth in
entire nations.

Normally, perturbations in forex markets are limited in effect, but in
this case, all developed nations will eventually need to finance the
living expenses of unemployed citizenry with government spending.

<a name="bond-markets-react-poorly-to-inflation" />

### [Bond Markets React Poorly to Inflation](#bond-markets-react-poorly-to-inflation)

The Federal Reserve influences credit markets through the sale of debt
securities. How does high inflation affect the willingness of the Fed
and banks to loan with low-interest, if they are expecting inflation
and/or significant forex fluctuations? High inflation negatively
affects the bond market because the yields are depreciated by it.

How do bond markets respond in the 20's & 30's?  Unemployment
pressures bond markets to respond with
[lower yields](http://www.investopedia.com/terms/b/bond-yield.asp?lgl=myfinance-layout-no-ads). Further,
investopedia states that
["inflation is a bond's worst enemy."](http://www.investopedia.com/articles/bonds/09/bond-market-interest-rates.asp?lgl=myfinance-layout-no-ads)
Bonds are long-term securities, whose value is supposed to be locked
in by government policy. For a brief introduction to trading bonds,
read this article on the
[Ten Year T-Bond and Why It's Important](https://www.thebalance.com/10-year-treasury-note-3305795).

The Fed buys bonds to inject liquidity into the economy, expecting to
receive payment from bond issuers over the course of 10 or 30 years.
Since bond investors receive less return on investment after bond
yields are adjusted for inflation, the bond market responds poorly to
inflation.

This means that the Fed is less able to leverage bond purchases to
inject liquidity into the economy through the banking sector.  It can
still do so, but can expect the bonds to perform poorly and thus is a
bad decision. High inflation will place downward pressure on liquidity
via the bond markets. Furthermore, this happens while another feedback
loop of poorly serviced debt via unemployment restricts liquidity
through constriction of bank reserves.

#### [Jeffrey Gundlach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeffrey_Gundlach)'s 2017 Presentation on the Bond Market

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qt535kgQKno" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Unpredictable changes and shifting industrial dependencies in the
commodity markets will alter composite measures which are used to
predict trends. For example, for at least the past several decades,
the price of oil and other commodities serves as an indicator of
unfolding inflation in the CPI. Thus, it has served as an important
metric for bond investors. Yet, oil's capacity to indicate short-term
inflation will break down or, at least, the relationship will
change. Because investors will continue to use these correlative
composite metrics without reassessing their assumptions in doing so,
they will tend to misallocate capital.

<a name="distribution-of-debt" />

### [Distribution of Debt](#distribution-of-debt)

What happened during the 2008 housing crisis? The subprime housing
markets crashed and the lost revenue streams thereof triggered
cascading effects through the global banking system. But how did the
subprime housing markets crash? An economic downturn that impacted the
riskiest mortgage assets first.

Quite simply, there were people with mortgages who couldn't pay their
bills. This require shifts in allocation of liquidity to cover the
lost revenue streams, which triggered recession and thereby increased
unemployment, leading to more lost revenue streams in the housing
sector.

In addition to income distribution, the distribution of debt among
consumers and businesses in America is critical. The greater the unmet
debt burden, the greater the effects of such a crisis are to be when
they emerge. So, even if there is some policy like UBI that provides
the *median income*, there will still be many people unemployed above
the median income who are unable to pay their mortgages and debts.

As it intersects with the income distribution of the newly unemployed,
this distribution of real asset debt like house and car loans, then
triggers an impulse to sell amoung owners and mortgage holders. This
results in downward pressure on home prices. If you don't know what
happens next, I'm not sure why you're still reading and I would guess
that you're a liberal who decides their vote presented solely with
emotional arguments.

Remember, in the best case, the government can maintain the median
income, but without empire, it's impossible for the government to
drive this median income up. Are you a leftist who rails against
American imperialism or American capitalism?

<a name="entitlements-median-income-and-population-flux" />

### [Entitlements, Median Income and Population Flux](#entitlements-median-income-and-population-flux)

How fast do disruption occur in income distribution and median income?
Which segments of median income are disrupted first? At what rates can
we expect disruption to progress in each income segment? At what rate
can federal deficits be expected to expand? This will determine how
reliant the government is on central banking, bonds, and more
inflationary measures. Which segments of income distribution most
severely affect aggregate revenue streams to banks from personal and
corporate debt? Lower through upper middle class.

Inflationary financial policy like this, driven at high rates in the
2020's, may increase the CPI at a rate faster or slower than the
monetary supply. The fed tracks inflation with CPI. For example, the
CPI may eventually begin to increase faster because of cascading
effects in cost structure or pricing strategy. Businesses expecting
inflation will respond by rising their prices to target future
economic conditions.

> "Ask not what your government can do for you, but what you can do
> for your government."

What is the government obligated to provide to each citizen? What is
the government obligated to provide for non-citizens and illegal
immigrants? Did the government enact amnesty programs for illegal
immigrants? Did it do so because of a certain political party's
long-term strategy to use the votes to stay in power?

How much do people contribute to their regional or national economy in
return? How much can citizens who were formerly illegal immigrants be
expected to contribute to GDP and tax volume? So what is their net
contribution to the deficit? It should be expected to be higher than
that of legitimate citizens, though at most amnestees would account
for 5% of the population.

But, at some point, we have to decide who is American and who is
not. If we will be compelled to respond with massive government
programs when our tax revenues are cut by 20-50%, then who is our
responsibility and who is not? This is not in any way a distinction to
be made on a racial or ethnic basis. Yet, we must decide who receives
the benefits of American citizenship and who does not.  If the
benefits to being American are attractive, how do you think foreign
nationals will want to respond in a global crisis?

This is why I consider the Democratic platform to contain
schizophrenic ideals. They want the government to provide more of
everything, but are not willing to engage in a reasonable discussion
on illegal immigration. They rail against perceived American
imperialism and policies which promote American economic growth while
expecting the government to do more for them always. This economic
growth is precisely what makes their programs possible. Further, they
want so badly to improve people's lives, but do not understand how
their policies will actually change human behavior. Their platform is
concocted from idealistic policy that the leadership knows triggers
emotional reactions within the population. All they have to do is
promise more of everything and promise to adhere to the idealistic,
emotional, irrational concerns of the base, without considering how
they will deliver on their promises or whether their policies are
sustainable and grounded in reality. It is irresponsible. They are
gaming the democratic system with demogoguery to retain power and
threatening that everything they offer will be taken away if they
lose. In reality, if the Democratic platform prevails now, we will be
blindsided by poor monetary and economic policy when this crisis
happens, *then America will lose everything*. We will burn
wheel-barrows full of cash in an economy that hopelessly resembles the
Weimar Republic. The problem with letting them win is that radical
leftists are already promulgating the idea that capitalism is at fault
for any economic problems.

> IMO, there are radical leftists who know this is coming, they want
> it to happen, they want to bottom to fall out and they want to tell
> you who to blame when it does.

Because the crisis inevitably results in inflation, population flux
partially determines the severity of a currency's contribution to
disruption to forex markets. This happens when a government is forced
to expand entitlement programs to account for new citizens.  Because
the economic crisis cannot be lessened except through credit directly
added to government balance sheets, the more spending that is
required, the more credit a government will require.  Therefore, the
more a government or party obligates itself to do and the more
citizens it is obligated to provide for, the less it can do with the
same amount of deficit.  When this deficit is financed through credit,
this furthers inflation. So therefore, the more people and the more
entitlements, the faster these macroeconomic dynamics become toxic for
a nation.

There are major differences in how this kind of credit-driven policy
affects the currency and behavioral economic dynamics. In the nineties
and the aughts, the credit stimulated the economy through the housing
markets, which is a necessary means towards promoting home
ownership. Therefore, if one manipulates housing prices and other
aspects of the real-estate market, one can increase GDP and tax volume
artificially through credit, when the monetary policy is seen as
necessary for growth, sustainable and thus responsible.

When one begins to infuse a deficit ridden government with cash, it is
not seen in the same light by creditors, investors and other backing
nations.  The effects in floating your economy are, on the surface,
similar, but this latter method is unsustainable. At this point, you
are about as close to literally printing money as you can get if
you're in charge of the world's reserve currency.

Ultimately, if you want to reduce the severity of the crisis, you have
to reduce spending while there's plenty of liquidity. that means we
need to divert from spending in general. again, that's so that we can
invest in other things *while* we have the liquidity because once
unemployment hits critical levels, we won't be able to do anything but
print money.  what matters is preservation of real value outside
currency, so we need to invest in global real estate, commodity,
production via FDI, etc.  in this way, we can weather the forex
dynamics.

<a name="unpredictable-geoeconomic-trends-via-climate-change" />

### [Unpredictable Geoeconomic Trends Via Climate Change](#unpredictable-geoeconomic-trends-via-climate-change)

In
[part one](/posts/2017-02-28-international-trends-2020-climate-change.html)
and
[part two](/posts/2017-02-28-international-trends-2020-the-smart-grid.html)
of this series, I discuss leveraging the smart grid as an economic
platform.  Such a platform helps quantify/anticipate trends in demand
for commodities, which can help mitigate a lot of the uncertainty in
the late 20's and 30's. If we can economically respond to changing
commodity prices faster because we are in tune with real-time
production/consumption trends and thus supply/demand, then we can make
better financial trades that reduce the possibility of divergent
feedback loops in Forex and Commodity markets. This platform is
incredibly useful for derivatives on commodities.

If you control/own the hardware, you have more control over the
applications developed on top of platform's like
[GE's Predix](https://www.youtube.com/user/industrialinternet/playlists).
When combined with financial applications, this
energy/resource/appliance utilization data is like God-mode for
commodities.

Climate change can lead to feast or famine. In the period of time
until 2050, we will see some area's of the world increase in
real-estate value and other decrease. However, the major changes to
real-estate and agriculture will primarily occur to areas of the world
where such changes were unexpected. Thus, we will need to reallocate
agricultural resources and this may lead to rising food
prices. Further, even without climate change, water shortages are
almost a near certainty. This leads to rising energy costs in
agriculture and its requisite infrastrucure and thus rising food
costs. War will be fought over food, water and the climate.

War will cause massive amounts of pollution. Wide scale war with new
technologies in the age of climate change can lead to debt and more
war in some circumstances. The debt or climate damage itself could
provide casus belli.

Furthermore, financing war in the middle of an economic or currency
crisis is difficult if not impossible. Hey, maybe we can find
Lincoln's buried gold. Oh wait, that's just a metaphor for
inflationary monetary policy in a time of crisis.

#### That one thing you were counting on that your opponent knew you would reach for...

![Doctor Strange Axe Out of Reach](/img/post/2017-06-17-international-trends-2020-the-automation-crisis/dr-strange-axe.png)

How does war impact bond markets? Limited savings rates prevent
private citizens from investing in wartime bonds. Gradually limited
savings are a hallmark of credit-leveraging Keynesian policy. Such
policy gradually increases the price of services and thus, decreases
savings rates.

<a name="we-are-not-out-of-the-woods-yet" />

# [We Are Not Out of the Woods Yet](#we-are-not-out-of-the-woods-yet)

Just because the economy seems to have recovered from the 2008 crisis
doesn't mean that we're out of the woods yet. We need forward-looking
economic policy determined by where the global economy is
heading. Amid the uncertainty imposed by these ten factors, each
strongly defining how the crisis unfolds, the successful policy is not
reactive, it is proactive. It must drive trends and mitigate
uncertainty, while being strongly defined by exigent trends and the
Singularity's assymptotic finality of economic convergence.

<a name="policy-must-account-for-domestic-and-foreign-political-reaction" />

### [Policy Must Account For Domestic and Foreign Political Reaction](#policy-must-account-for-domestic-and-foreign-political-reaction)

Policy must also expect the domestic and foreign political reaction,
as well as the tendency of the masses to be completey unaware of the
economic reasoning behind policy. Policy must also attempt to
construct the proper narrative moving forward, so that citizenry
living in democracy actively support it.

<a name="counting-on-downward-cpi-pressure-is-wishful-thinking" />

### [Counting on Downward CPI Pressure is Wishful Thinking](#counting-on-downward-cpi-pressure-is-wishful-thinking)

Good news: *some* prices will generally lower over time via improved
technology. Downward pressure in CPI results as fabrication disrupts
intermediate tiers in supply chains. This is like a phase change with
emergent behaviors, but enabling more new dynamics than an physical
phase change. Fabrication tech enables mitigation of risk against
industrial allocation by enabling faster response to
supply/demand. This adds another layer of downward price pressure by
enabling targeted supply/demand response.

However, I don't think the CPI will lower enough to offset monetary
inflation. Further, monetary inflation is fueled primarily through the
housing sector, so as housing prices rise, this means credit becomes
more available to central banks and lending institutions. As housing
prices rise, this makes things difficult for renters and prospective
owners: the percentage of available income *after paying bills in a
services-oriented economy gradually becomes less. Even if, commodity
prices and production, both primary and intermediate, initially
produce downward pressure in prices, commodity prices will inevitably
rise due to overpopulation and competition.

Counting on protracted downward movement in CPI to offset monetary
inflation with lower perceived inflation is wishful thinking. This
second-order effect is a favorite for people promoting inflation-based
economics. UBI supporters love citing this one.

<a name="avoid-hacking-economics-for-short-term-gain" />

### [Avoid Hacking Economics for Short-Term Gain](#avoid-hacking-economics-for-short-term-gain)

When we hack the economy to optimize macroeconomic indicators, we
often delude ourselves into believing optimal indicators imply
prosperity and optimal allocation of wealth. That is, the common
person assumes that the cash flowing around the economy reflects
strong economic fundamentals when instead Keynesian economics allows
"even out" economic turbulence by stimulating the economy with central
banking. The credit injected into the economy, in turn, promotes
economic growth. So when there's not enough liquidity in the system,
one uses central banks to pump it in.

There's nothing inherently wrong with Keynesian economics, but there's
a tendency for these policies to go horribly wrong. If we pump credit
into the economy, but don't invest it in the right places, it's going
make everything worse later on. However, we need to avoid the tendancy
to hack the economy using Keynesian economics. For example, the
factors that led to the housing crisis were essentially an attempt to
hack macroeconomic indicators to drive consumerism, maintain GDP
growth and promote an artificial sense of prosperity that would lead
to high spending. The flood of cheap credit into domestic industries
such as construction floated these industries and kept a healthy flux
of liquidity flowing through the economy. This artificially increased
employment, since the broader availability and utilization of capital
keeps people working and, thus, servicing their debts.

Yet, if we are "banking" on these same strategies to float
macroeconomics via injection of liquidity/credit, then more we depend
on them, the greater this future crisis will be. Macroprudential
policies should limit problematic behavior via central banks. The
[Bank of International Settlements](http://www.bis.org/publ/bppdf/bispap86.htm)
is a great source of information on macroprudiential policy worldwide.

<a name="strategic-allocation-of-liquidity-in-the-2020s" />

### [Strategic Allocation of Liquidity in the 2020's](#strategic-allocation-of-liquidity-in-the-2020s)

We must assume that we have a finite amount of liquidity flux to
invest in a platform for economic development before unemployment ends
up restricting liquidity.  We need an economic engine that harnesses
the differential in progression of unemployment and other geoeconomic
aspects of the crisis.

Automation occurs in developed economies first, where the economic
platform exists, but there is economic opportunity for developed
players to help build that platform elsewhere. This enables future
opportunites for investment, though if the utilization of liquidity
flux is not properly allocated in the initial stages leading up to the
automation crises, these opportunities in developing countries will
begin to ripen when liquidity is restricted via unemployment.

We need to maximize our launchpad time and try to stave off
unemployment because the entitlement programs and lost tax revenue
streams cause the greatest change in monetary policy. We need to be
creative in searching for solution and try to articially replace the
sociocultural evolutionary dynamics that we lose from automation. The
next generation must always be stronger. The best usage of our
launchpad time can be guaranteed through appropriate investment of
liquidity while we have it, before it becomes constricted through
macroeconomic, bond market and forex market response to policy.

<a name="interest-rates-and-federal-reserve-policy" />

### [Interest Rates And Federal Reserve Policy](#interest-rates-and-federal-reserve-policy)

Interest rates will affect lending behavior, which can increase or
reduce the total consumer and corporate debt. When unemployment spikes
as a result of automation, these revenue streams must be accounted for
by diverting liquidity. So, if the total amount of debt that must be
accounted for is lower after a decade of lower interest rates, this
means less liquidity will need to be diverted later on.

It's not that a slowdown in lending via lower interest rates will be
necessary. It's that we need to make wiser investment decisions that
weigh the long-term economic consequences much more heavily than the
short-term. Lending institutions cannot simply conduct themselves with
the next quarter's results in mind.

<a name="international-economic-development" />

### [International Economic Development](#international-economic-development)

In terms of maximizing profits, American and multinational banks will
almost certainly tend to avoid developing markets because of the
higher risk and lower returns, but if they do so, this doesn't
establish an economic platform that America can use to replace
liquidity in the 2030's.

OPIC is an international development organization which would truly
help. It's a rare breed among government institutions and actually
turns a profit. Something or some mechanism like it is needed to help
facilitate investment while we have launchpad time. However, the Trump
administration recently put OPIC on the chopping block.

#### CSIS Discussion on OPIC's Role in Emerging Markets

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DXIkxSHdcIY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

We must have something like it that prepares us for expansion into
foreign markets. We must decimate the chaotic forces that prevent
economic development in third-world countries.

<a name="currency-market-stabalization" />

### [Currency Market Stabalization](#currency-market-stabalization)

There's a strong need to artificially stabalize the currency markets
if we know there are to be problems in the future. After the crisis
begins, it is unlikely that we can coordinate nations to come together
and cooperate towards this end. They will be acting in their own self
interest under rapidly changing conditions.

What can be used as force for forex market stabalization or
correction? How can we identify these potential feedback loops, while
anticipating the response of financial markets?

Could there be a system of international agreements for redirectable
labor/development funds that isn't locked to a major currency? This
could be used to recorrect the value of liquidity for significant
short-term changes to currency value, so that investments and economic
development projects can continue over the course of months or years
without stalling out. How can such an international system be
architected to offset significant forex turbidity?

<a name="ethereum-for-irl-labor-as-a-currency-stabilization-mechanism" />

### ['Ethereum for IRL Labor' as a Currency Stabilization Mechanism](#ethereum-for-irl-labor-as-a-currency-stabalization-mechanism)

Another option is a single currency shared across the world. However,
this will never happen in time as there is no reasonable transition
path towards this system. Doing so is impossible to do safely. The
transition to the system would cause too much socioeconomic
instability. And that's without considering that an unproven, ideal
single-currency system might not work.

Yet, a currency doesn't quite fit the bill for what I'm thinking
about. The concept of Ethereum as applied to IRL labor and industry is
more along the idea of an international mechanism for offsetting major
liquidity and forex fluctuation problems. I don't know what would
work, but it is clear there is a problem and a major need to solve
that problem. Now, if we could just find some Harvard-educated
international law practitioners with strong skills in
financial/monetary policy to follow that pipedream down the
interdimensional rabbit hole...

**Update:**
[SDR](https://www.imf.org/en/About/Factsheets/Sheets/2016/08/01/14/51/Special-Drawing-Right-SDR)
is a mechanism in place for balancing turbulence in international
currency markets.

<a name="flexible-management-of-existing-debt" />

### [Flexible Management of Existing Debt](#flexible-management-of-existing-debt)

Neither UBI/ELR accounts for consumers' need to maintain existing cash
flows to service debt. This is a major problem for sustaining
liquidity via central banking and the banking sector. Consumers with
jobs in automatable roles can no longer pay their mortgages. This is
another feedback loop that generates problems system-wide. The higher
consumer debt appetite are the greater the disruption will be to banks
sources of revenue in the future. Poorly managed credit practices will
lead to a greater scale of liquidity problems in the 2030's.

We should probably make the home & garden channel illegal, as well as
pay-day loans and commercials advertising predatory lending
practices. That statement is facetious, of course.  We should
encourage higher payments of existing debt while the economy
permits. That, however, doesn't work well for our ironic
consumer-driven economy.

<a name="enslavement-by-debt-and-desire" />

### [Enslavement by Debt and Desire](#enslavement-by-debt-and-desire)

In a society where most people receive universal $10,000/year UBI
payments, how does the person who formerly made $200,000/year pay
their debt? Can they ever? Or, when the crisis hits, is each person
forever enslaved by their debt to the degree that their desire for
material comfort expanded their debt appetite? Does this mean the
person with zero debt is best prepared for the upcoming crisis?

This is unlike any depression in history because, for those at the
top, there is high growth and economic opportunity is plentiful. Yet,
for everyone else, there is little to no economic opportunity, except
as artificially provided by the government or those with liquidity and
a penchant for unnecessary spending.  In this depresson, people may
owe large sums of debt that the economy does not help them to
repay. In severe cases, the borrower is unable to pay even the
interest on their debts. So, how do society and government respond to
enable these debts to be paid?

<a name="student-loan-reform-and-innovation-in-higher-edcation" />

### [Student Load Reform and Innovation in Higher Education](#student-loan-reform-and-innovation-in-higher-edcation)

Student load reform in the short-term is reasonable, although
innovation in higher education is preferable. We do not want our
children to be forced to indebt themselves with massive sums of money
if the economy isn't even going to allow them to repay it. At the same
time, we do not want to remove the incentivization for education.

We know that technology *should* revolutionize education in
general. To me, the greatest value to higher education, as its
currently formulated, are the social networks formed by someone's
years in college. This is what online education can never replace.

If a college degree's value diminishes over time and student debt
becomes unnecessarily high, we will see many people begin to withdraw
from higher education. We need education. If there's one thing that
should be covered by national service, it is education, though perhaps
not initially. Technology will replace people's desire and instinct to
learn, especially if it is not rewarded economically.

<a name="even-with-inflationary-measures-there-is-still-systemic-collapse" />

### [Even With Inflationary Measures, There is Still Systemic Collapse](#even-with-inflationary-measures-there-is-still-systemic-collapse)

The easy way out of a deflationary crisis is to coordinate government
policy to create higher monetary inflation. Here, we have a problem:
we need CPI and monetary inflation to be paradoxically low and
high. There are many such paradoxical factors that I have discussed in
this article. We cannot simply hope for everything to land in our
favor and we certainly cannot have both outcomes of such paradoxical
factors. i.e. both low and high monetary inflation or both low and
high perceived inflation via CPI.

It may be tempting to leverage inflation to lessen the magnitude of
consumer and corporate debt, but financial institutions will strongly
oppose this. The people, however, will push for whatever they believe
will ameliorate their suffering in the short-term, without regard for
the long-term. In the above situation, people are pitted against the
financial institutions at a time of unrest. The people will not care
to understand and will look to people who tell them what they want to
hear. Inflationary policy on a global scale is what causes the forex
problems and it is what will cause large sums of wealth to evaporate
in a forex crisis. That is the last thing banks or governments want.

<a name="gold-and-silver" />

### [Gold and Silver](#gold-and-silver)

Because the only way to lessen the magnitude of the crisis is via
inflation, investment in gold/silver are good bets. For smalller
investors, as this approaches, I'd recommend up to 1% investment in
gold/silver per 1% in unemployment. The problem with this is, if
everyone does it, it reduces the liquidity available even further. So,
you have your money in gold and silver, but it's not liquid and can't
finance anything.

Exacerbating problems, banks can only lend in proportion to their
reserves accumulated partially from savings. A contraction in reverves
through annhilated savings means another source of contraction in
liquidity. Inflation is the devil. And especially high monetary
inflation.

<a name="policy-must-account-for-disinformation-in-the-age-of-social-media" />

### [Policy Must Account for Disinformation in the Age of Social Media](#policy-must-account-for-disinformation-in-the-age-of-social-media)

We must keep in mind the shifting nature of information amid social
media, as well as the difficulty in avoiding complete communist
revolution. Hyperconnectedness and the light-speed velocity at which
ideas travel on the internet disrupt our ability to discern
causality. That is, no one can determine cause and effect in political
or sociocultural affairs. Therefore, it's anyone's game when
constructing a narrative.

Far left radicals will encourage the pursuit of poorly thought out
policy that causes the bottom to fall out and they will harness the
political momentum that results from economic chaos. They will
distract the masses from understanding the true causes of the economic
crisis, favoring to ideologically place the blame on capitalism. While
it may be a herculean task, I recommend scorching each neck of that
hydra with a blazing firebrand. The more radical leftists will not
hesitate to use each economic setback as a means to gain ground while
setting us back further. It will distract us from executing a coherent
strategy.

<a name="revolution-is-expensive-and-the-opportunity-cost-in-unacceptable" />

### [Revolution is Expensive and the Opportunity Cost is Unacceptable](#revolution-is-expensive-and-the-opportunity-cost-in-unacceptable)

Groups planning to capitalizing on the economic chaos by rewriting the
narrative to undermine the American economic system are leading us
right off a cliff. Revolution involves transfer of power and of
assets, either legally, nomininally or just functionally. That's how
Marxist revolution works.

It's not a matter of opinion. There will be economic crisis and any
friction or discord in America's reaction is unacceptable. America
must unite and we cannot tolerate dissension or we will end up ceding
our own economic interests to our enemies at the culmination of human
history. America underneath the foot of our enemies will be
unrecognizable. You will not receive the social programs you are
looking for because our government, with a ruined currency, will not
be able to afford them. So, if you disrupt our fountain of prosperity
or our path forward, America will destroy you.

We completely anticipate a
[fifth column](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifth_column) to
emerge. If warranted, we will funnel antagonistic forces within
America into a single movement and we will break your back. At that
point, you might say that we are counting on it. The economic tensions
will need someone to blame and, with data science, we can determine
those advocating to undermine American interests. We will scapegoat
communists as an Ouroborosian alchemical cost to galvanize America, in
the name of safeguarding our interests.

As we approach the Singularity and phase out the workforce, Marxism's
semiotic basis of symbols related to work and pride in work begin to
break down. Your pattern language no longer functions for mind control
because the symbols upon which it is built become increasingly
irrelevant to human experience.

<a name="what-side-do-you-want-to-be-on-anyways" />

### [What Side Do You Want To Be On Anyways?](#what-side-do-you-want-to-be-on-anyways)

This is a potentially currency-breaking economic crisis. China, Russia
and others already have plans in place to replace the American Dollar
as the world's reserve currency. It's called
[BRICS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BRICS). If you believe that life
will proceed swimmingly after our economy and currency are broken, a
new world order of Chinese hegemony is established, and that none of
this will interfere with America's ability to implement expansive
social programs or protect foreign policy interests, then you might
have a severe head injury.
