---
title: "International Trends 2020: Climate Change"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Our world does not need to deal with billions of hungry people.
Instead humanity needs to ensure every last person on the planet is
fully enabled to contribute their maximum potential because we need
every one. With optimal contribution of net human potential,
overpopulation doesn't burden us. It instead empowers us to reach our
full potential."
---

## [Climate Change: The Smart Grid, Intrinsic Analytics and Economic Dynamics](#climite-change-the-smart-grid-intrinsic-analytics-and-economic-dynamics)

#### [Climate Change Policy Drives Global Economic Trends](#climate-change-policy-drives-global-economic-trends)

#### [Smart Grid Analytics to Power Global Business Intelligence](#smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence)

#### [On Tax-Funded Pollution Cleanup](#on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup)

#### [Climate Change Encourages Cooperation](#climate-change-encourages-cooperation)

#### [Warning About Finance and International Climate Change Policy](#warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy)

#### [Carbon Tax Augments the Global Economy's Mechanisms for Stabilization](#carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization)

#### [Circuits for Liquidity Flux in the Global Economy](#circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy)

#### [Leveraging Data Science to Measure How The Economy Serves the People](#leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people)

#### [Unparalleled Insight Into International Economic Trends](#unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends)

#### [An International Institution with Authority to Tax and Regulate](#an-international-institution-with-authority-to-tax-and-regulate)

#### [Water, Irrigation and Desalinization](#water-irrigation-and-desalinization)

<a name="climite-change-the-smart-grid-intrinsic-analytics-and-economic-dynamics" />

# [Climate Change: The Smart Grid, Intrinsic Analytics and Economic Dynamics](#climite-change-the-smart-grid-intrinsic-analytics-and-economic-dynamics)

Carbon dioxide is mostly meaningless in itself. However, CO2 does
serve as vital ecological metric informing us on the general degree of
pollution. It's a red herring and a kind of a straw man. Pollution is
the real problem, with downstream effects on biological systems, which
are hierarchical, interdependent and incredibly fragile. As such,
pollition will exhibit strong second-order and third-order impacts on
global agriculture markets already strained by overpopulation. For
example, ocean acidification strongly influences the amount of food
that can be harvested from the oceans. There is a point-of-no-return
for ocean acidification, beyond which it may be impossible for nature
to recover.

Our world does not need to deal with billions of hungry people,
i.e. agricultural collapse. Instead humanity needs to ensure every
last person on the planet is fully enabled to contribute their maximum
potential because we need every one. With optimal contribution of net
human potential, overpopulation doesn't burden us. It instead empowers
us to reach our full potential.

<a name="climate-change-policy-drives-global-economic-trends" />

### [Climate Change Policy Drives Global Economic Trends](#climate-change-policy-drives-global-economic-trends)

Climate change and especially its international policy implementations
will drive economic trends in the world. It's nerve-racking for true
conservatives, as these supply & demand dynamics that is *based* on
government policy and bureaucracy. It's based on the collective
agreement that, however helpful or well-intended, that these
activities will continue to provide economic value to industry, thus
the cynical recognize this as unwise or at least precarious. As the
collective policy consensus wavers, so does the actual value of
specific renewables and the incentivization factors driving supply &
demand. Suddenly, *all of those products* -- that people make to meet
a need that was only ever a need to meet some parameter of an
international treaty on climate change -- *dramatically readjust in
perceived value*.

This is essentially a bubble in renewables that continues insofar as
certain apprehensions are maintained by international policy. These
suppositions of how policy should be implemented originate with the
best intentions, but are sometimes misguided and can't be known to be
permanent, looking forward. These policies contribute greatly to
economic opportunity -- they are beneficial in many ways -- but
entreprenuers should approach them under the assumption that their
value may be erratically dependent on some arbitrary mechanism of
international law. Therefore, an entrepreneur should be wary, as their
their business entity, city or nation state have little control over
these dynamics depending on international policy whims. Since there is
undeniable momentum towards renewables and green practices across the
world, this will inevitably happen, but its handling by policy-makers
dramatically affects the order and quality of trends that emerge.

With few options for risk-mitigation available to entrepreneurs,
international globalist cabals can use green policy to influence
dynamics of the global economy towards the application of some
large-scale strategy. That is: there is money and lots of it to be had
if some group can steer global climate policy.

<a name="smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence" />

### [Smart Grid Analytics to Power Global Business Intelligence](#smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence)

Analytics on human behavior such as quantifiable behaviors, quantified
clusterings of behavior types, automated psychosocial analyses behind
those behavior types, and resource consumption will become not just
possible, but norms. This degree of quantifiable behavior and its
level of pervasion throughout life creates a paradigm shift that is
like a nightmare scenario for the SEC. We might actually be able to
"wrap-around" from automated signals on human behavior to finanacial
indicators to reach a point where no stock price is unpredictable
beyond a threshold.

<a name="on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup" />

### [On Tax-Funded Pollution Cleanup](#on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup)

There's an opportunity for monetization of pollution cleanup that many
of the same corporations who contributed to pollution to clean it
up. Those who profited off the creation of these problems should not
be the ones draining the tax coffers getting rich cleaning them up.
There should be lots of opportunity for business here. Unfortunately,
there aren't many ways to naturally incentivize pollution cleanup. It
must be financed through government programs, but as such, it is
dependent on growth elsewhere in the economy. Therefore, pollution
cleanup is always a net drain on the economy.

<a name="climate-change-encourages-cooperation" />

### [Climate Change Encourages Cooperation](#climate-change-encourages-cooperation)

In which ways does climate change contributed towards cooperation and
thus stability? It contributes to better economic planning and
anticipation of demand through faster/immediate feedback loops and
high quality data on patterns of consumption, especially energy
consumption. Developed states can market their products to contribute
to development of nations, connecting them to global markets. At this
point, a global framework begins to coalesce, which provides resource
consumption analytics. This framework layered on top of smart-grid
consumption data provides a fabric of metrics to measure usage/purpose
and is essential for accurate assessment of carbon tax offsets.
Demand from developing and recently developed nations increases the
aggregate demand for high-tech products towards its maximum, where the
aggregate demand for these products is highest when penetration of
development of nations is complete. Conversely, need/risk for
destablization of populations becomes balanced with the an economic
need for stability.

Through balanced trade, the parties tend to stabalize each other via a
economic & political framework for incentivization and mutually
beneficial partnership. This economically incentivizes peace and
stability, which provides counterbalance to other stress points around
the world. This ameliorates potential issues through cooperation and
deincentivizes conflict by providing the entire system with net gain
through stability and deviation from maximum economic utility during
times of conflict.

<a name="warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy" />

### [Warning About Finance and International Climate Change Policy](#warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy)

Conservatives are rightfully skeptical of manmade institutions created
to strongly dictate international norms for the purpose of some
abstract ideals. This generally confers the power to determine global
economic trends related to mission of the institution. in many cases,
this delegates US authority to some institution outside US control. In
the specific case of climate change, nowhere is there more capacity
for second and third order effects to commerce and society than
climate and energy policy.

> Therefore: step one, control the policy; step two, anticipate
> resulting trends and place bets; step three, profit.

For every change in capital for some stock, commodity or derivative,
there are ideal trading tactics. The capacity for profit increases
with the size of the changes. The timing of these large liquidity
fluxes can be controlled by restraining, accelerating and anticipating
climate policy changes.

Libertarians are distrustful of such artificial international
institutions. Such policy enacts mechanisms expending real resources
as costs, but add value according only to transient, manipulable
beliefs. This is similar to how people's belief systems can be
manipulated to perceive wealth in the midst of what is only a credit
bubble. However, in the case of green climate regulation, the bubble
extends to influence all aspects of production and consumption.

<a name="carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization" />

### [Carbon Tax Augments the Global Economy's Mechanisms for Stabilization](#carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization)

Carbon policy augments the avenues for stability and capital flux in
the global economy, but isn't the only policy needed to help ensure
consistent opportunities for commerce and finance across the globe.
Via mechanisms enumerated in the Paris Accord, states with space, but
insufficient industry, could instead leverage carbon offsets as a
means for producton in economies where other options aren't present.

For example, island nations with large swaths of shallow/placid CZ
(Contiguous Zone) and EEZ (Extended Economic Zone) can use the space
to produce energy or reduce carbon. As will be shown in further in the
article, some of these states are ideal for facilitating space
commerce. If the world decides to set up such an artificial
international institution to regulate carbon, developing states begin
to develop faster and this will generally drive demand for tech
products, which should fuel economic growth the world over. The
economics of renewables and smart-grid products are interdependent, as
each establishes a platform that adds value to other. After a
threshold of infrastructure, there is an added network effect that
accelerates demand for both renewables and smart-grid products.

These mechanisms like those of the Paris Accord augment the global
economy with a mechanism for liquidity displacement and therefore
augment stability. However, these mechanisms for commerce are
artificial and dependent on trends in international policy.

<a name="circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy" />

### [Circuits for Liquidity Flux in the Global Economy](#circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy)

In finance and macroeconomics, the integral of liquidity displacement
over time for corporations and states is an important measure of the
total displacement and movement of capital. Therefore, if one wants to
make money, one must observe global economic trends to identify and
predict major liquidity displacements, tending to accumulate slices of
profit from each such movement.  That is, every time a large sum of
captial changes hands, one can take a percentage of those transactions
by: being in the right place, at the right time, with the right ideas,
with the right amounts of money.  It's all based on accumulated strips
of liquidity from major liquidity displacements. i.e. It's all based
on observing the integral of the of liquidity movements between major
nodes in the graph of economic players and various aggregates of this.

Taking a systems theory approach, these potential connections for
capital exchange are like circuits, through which is established
natural, balance-restoring feedback loops via potential global
economic liquidity/wealth transfers. Neighborhoods of the global
economy with low capital flux are at higher risk of economic issues
and would benefit more from additional mechanisms for capital flux. In
context of taking care to provide economic stability during dramatic
technology shifts, this is incredibly important for a responsible
approach.

For neighborhoods in the graph of the global economy with low capital
flux, in addition to increasing capacity/propensity for capital flux,
we should focus on moving capital into the hands of more
people. Incredibly important for global economic stability, more
circuits whereby liquidity redistributions can rediverted capital back
into the hands of people. If one pictures a liquidity flux or capital
displacement in the global economy as wealth shifting from one group
to another, then one can zoom out and picture higher-order liquidity
flux from groups of nodes to others.

<a name="leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people" />

### [Leveraging Data Science to Measure How The Economy Serves the People](#leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people)

One can use data science to obtain metrics from an economies tendency
to fairly redistribute wealth into the hands of many. These metrics
could be used to inform investment behavior changes that help fairly
redistribute wealth in a natural way that doesn't involve government
regulation and bureaucracy. This is because, now, we can get much
better feedback through data science on how the economy benefits the
common person. And if it doesn't, we know that something has to change
and it becomes trivial to demonstrate this.

The point is not to forcibly redistribute wealth. Instead, it is to
architect systems whereby everyone shares wealth and ideally that
global population is essentially equivalently invested in the global
economy.

<a name="unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends" />

### [Unparalleled Insight Into International Economic Trends](#unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends)

Carbon tax provides insights into global economic trends, by
leveraging the smart grid to help humanity understand how people
consume resources, qualitatively and quantitatively. Everyone across
the globe should be on the same page with this, so we can all empower
ourselves with this insight.

Further, this is where the money is in the smart grid and in green
tech. These metrics all depend on the features and level of data,
integration and global product penetration. Therefore, policy should
universalize the framework for smart-grid appliance & infrastructure
metrics, so that everyone benefits.  The more various qualities are
optimized for metrics, the greater the degree of value that is added
to society as a whole, but this value is maximized when everyone is on
the same page. Business is about having a set of assumptions about the
world that can deliver profit if one acts on them. If policy
determines a consistent framework, then other products can more easily
add value on top of that framework, but those products depend on the
assumption that the framework supports the product. Therefore, an
inconsistent framework leads to consistent churn in the
competitiveness of viable products.

<a name="an-international-institution-with-authority-to-tax-and-regulate" />

### [An International Institution with Authority to Tax and Regulate](#an-international-institution-with-authority-to-tax-and-regulate)

By donning a perspective enhanced by game theory, one can see that
climate change is an issue that can only be solved by getting all
nations on board. The larger the nation, the more important it is they
be on board and remain committed to restraining elements of their
economy for environmental conservation. The two most important nations
are the US and China, upon which consensus can be built.

Knowing that green policies acting to restrain Climate Change require
the entire world on board to be successful makes the power conferred
to these international institutions all the more precarious. With the
whole world's weight behind an international institution equipped with
what is essentially the power to tax, survey and regulate
international commerce, libertarians and true conservatives know to
fear this all the more. Commerce is everything and the power to
control commerce is the power to control everything. Extend this power
worldwide and you'll begin to understand why conservatives might be
nervous: they hold American sovereignty higher than any international
institution.

Combined with the ability to conduct climate-policy-fueled insider
trading, it's no wonder that conservatives are hesitant to move
forward. Globally moving forward on this policy confers the
international leftist order the ability to micromanage economies from
the comfort of obscure international institutions. Enable this and
watch in wonderment as western economies collapse in controlled
demolitions. Just watch and remind yourself that you "saved the
planet" every time you see another economic crisis like Athens,
Greece.

![Captain Planet](/img/posts/2017-02-28-international-trends-2020-climate-change/captain-planet.jpg)

#### A Warning to Liberals, Inspired By Pragmatism

> With our powers combined ... we summoned a slow, painful demolition
> of western economies. Ironically, we're now living in third-world
> nation status and hating every minute of it. But hey, we saved the
> planet, didn't we? ...

Perhaps greater than the power to influence economies through
international climate policy is the power to compel nations to
disclose information about their economic activities. Yes, the Paris
Agreement is implemented as a protocol, which means that member
nations simply need to conform to specific reporting requirements
without necessarily exposing their internal specifics via a global
reporting mechanism. However, this means that each member nation's
independence and competitiveness becomes limited. To understand the
specific mechanics of the Paris Agreement, it's crucial to actually
read it, regardless of your leanings on the issue of climate. The
Paris Agreement or something like it is inevitable, but actual
discussion of the specifics is crucial, as something like Paris cannot
so easily be undone. Shoving your head in the ground like an ostritch
isn't going to help anyone, which is a warning that applies equally to
the right and the left.

Further, this international autherity for taxation, quantification and
regulation of commerce represents the possibility of transition
towards a centerpiece for true global one-world government. As such,
it should thoroughly scrutinized by everyone. As a potential mechanism
for transition to one-world government, it is lunacy for conservatives
to remain uninvolved. Imagine if it actually an intermediate step in
transition towards one-world government and conservatives remained
completely uninvolved...

> By the way, I'd like to mention that I have the ability to unite
> both the left and right to a degree exhibited and unseen by anyone
> else on the planet. I imagine a better world, where Americans on the
> left and right cooperate to make America great not.

The potential for abuse is unreal. The data on resource utilization
and demand is incredibly valuable for both reading and driving
trends. It's impossible for people on the left and right to not have
considered this. Still, it seems to be left out of the mainstream
discussion. This is a matter of sovereignty and enormous ethical risk.

<a name="water-irrigation-and-desalinization" />

### [Water, Irrigation and Desalinization](#water-irrigation-and-desalinization)

Massive engineering efforts to terraform land will become necessary to
support the population of earth. Water will become the new oil and
there isn't nearly enough of it. Aquifers around the world are already
strained and we'll need massive engineering projects to provide fresh
water for crops and settlements. LA is running out of freshwater.

Fresh water requires irrigation, which comes from meltwater,
groundwater and rain: there is a finite amount of this, actually.
Seawater must be desalinized first, otherwise it can render land
inarable, so that constrains valid designs for terraforming projects.
As large centralized drains on energy, desalinization projects will
tend to be powered with renewables. Desalinization will tend to lower
sea levels, which *could raise* the proportion of pollutants to sea
water, unless its not enough to counter the increase from melting
polar ice.

Interestingly, one can map the anticipated effect of freshwater
availability. If you look at the differential in water consumption as
a proportion of underground freshwater reserves remaining, you'll
identify markets who will need renewable-powered desalinization in
order to produce local food, etc. So you can anticipate where these
projects will be needed, how badly they'll need them and when. One can
anticipate slight increases in aggregate to the cost of living in
specific areas because of changes in freshwater requirements.
Therefore, you can anticipate this component's magnitude in relation
to real estate price changes over time for specific areas.

# Part Two

The next part of International Trends 2020 concerns the smartgrid.

> "This is all Coming to you from the 9th level of Dante's Inferno,
> reserved for traitors and whence only the falsely crucified may
> emerge." - Dante
