---
title: "International Trends 2020: The Smart Grid"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> "Hey, it's me." -- David Conner, the guy without enough money to
> open a bank account who made less than $400 in 2016 and $1717
> in 2015.  The guy without enough skill to be employable in America
> or, at least, to break through being virtually blacklisted by
> negative career experience.

## [Fundamental Advancements Towards Tomorrow's Smartgrid](#fundamental-advancements-towards-tomorrows-smartgrid)

#### [Smart Grid Analytics and Surveillance](#smart-grid-analytics-and-surveillance)

#### [Packet Switching for the Smart Grid](#packet-switching-for-the-smart-grid)

#### [Quantum Networking For Instantaneous Transmission of Grid State](#quantum-networking-for-instantaneous-transmission-of-grid-state)

#### [Quantum Networking, Telecom and FinTech](#quantum-networking-telecom-and-fintech)

#### [To Supplement American Exports, Stability in Developing Nations is Crucial](#to-supplement-american-exports-stability-in-developing-nations-is-crucial)

#### [Hybrid Power Grids Offer Economically Practical Infrastructure Rollout to Developing Nations](#hybrid-power-grids-offer-economically-practical-infrastructure-rollout-to-developing-nations)

#### [The Smart Grid Affects Real Estate Trends](#the-smart-grid-affects-real-estate-trends)

<a name="fundamental-advancements-towards-tomorrows-smartgrid" />

# [Fundamental Advancements Towards Tomorrow's Smartgrid](#fundamental-advancements-towards-tomorrows-smartgrid)

Alternating Current (AC) and Direct Current (DC) have different
qualities making them useful in consumer electronics. Our electric
grid utilizes AC to transmit power long distances because it's more
efficient than DC. Thanks to Tesla, we didn't have to deal with GE's
plan for local DC switching facilities in a pure DC electric
grid. Incidentally, the power grid of the 21st century looks a lot
more like GE's plan.

The divide between AC and DC moves from the endpoint of consumer
technology to the consumer's house or building. This bridges the gap
for renewables to connect into a consumer's home and is required for
the creation of a viable product platform for renewables. Renewables
require a change in the consumer electric grid -- large changes in the
electric framework running through their home and office. Otherwise,
renewables simply can't be marketed to customers.

For example, the [Tesla Powerwall](https://www.tesla.com/powerwall)
can be easily connected to renewables such as solar, but isn't so
simply and efficiently integrated into a consumer's home AC
circuits. However, if a consumer's home is fully DC, everything
connects quite simply -- the Tesla storage battery and any renewables
that charge it. Therefore there's going to be a huge technological
shift in the parts of the electric grid connect to your home and
office. The divide between AC & DC will be pushed further out. Until
the actual electric grid infrastructure can be replaced, DC networks
will be pushed from the consumer side to the POD (Point of
Demarcation).

All this in-home and in-office infrastructure change is exorbitant.
How do we know that the trend in consumer adoption will resist price
pressure if prices are so high? It's a tough barrier and will take
decades to overcome, but is not prohibitive. To most efficiently use
power from renewables and products like the Tesla Powerwall or to sell
it back to the electric grid, one needs to replace their in-home
circuitry to handle DC power. DC power is more efficiently distributed
locally and the infrastructure is more modular with DC power routing
in place. The higher the price of energy, the higher the incentive for
accelerating this change in infrastructure on the consumer side.

In countries which are already developed, the evolution of the
smart-grid will be ironically slower, as there will be major headaches
in replacing the infrastructure. To ensure that American interests
become leaders in the manufacture, design and marketing of smart-grid
technology, we need to ensure that there are plenty of stable markets
in developing nations.

<a name="smart-grid-analytics-and-surveillance" />

### [Smart Grid Analytics and Surveillance](#smart-grid-analytics-and-surveillance)

The smart grid enables centralized analysis of resource consumption
and other IoT signals. This enables amazing features such as fairly
pricing electricity fed back into the grid. However, spectral analysis
and pattern mining on these signals leads surveillance to apporach a
state of completeness in its degree to map out individuals
lives.

Using spectral analysis techniques, you can process the power
utilization patterns at the consumer's central connection to the
[POD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demarcation_point) to identify
activities in their home. This is especially true if you have explicit
power utilization metadata is relayed through the DC switching fabric
back to a central point. Again, even if the metadata isn't explicit,
many of the same metrics can be inferred by tapping into the signal on
the line. These metrics produce more characteristically identifiable
signals on DC than on AC, I think. These signals can be matched to
some finite list of consumer electronics signal patterns.

With power utilization signals and IoT devices, every time you
microwave a hot pocket or flush the toilet, these events are emitted
in signals, then processed and analyzed by a multitude of
internet-connected services. Sorry, at this point, you can't even take
a poop without the government knowing how much water was displaced.

There is a major difference in qualitative magnitude between this and
prior major technological advancements. Signals-based analysis on IoT
data and the surveillance based on it plateau into a degree of
completeness surpassing everything thus far. That is, until we have a
working brain-computer interface, which requires nanotechnology. The
smart grid lands us at a point of diminishing returns in the ratio of
qualitative analytical insight and the quantity/types of data signals
produced.

Before we advance further, society needs to have a real discussion on
the sociocultural impact of technology and surveillance. 2015 and 2016
were abysmal in terms of the quality of discussion on this issue. Our
society simply hasn't deliberated enough on the qualititaive effects
on life. Surveillance and technology have been rammed down our throats
under the pretense of national security, which preemptively
short-circuits any real discussion with fear-mongering and propaganda
tactics. Everything is unnecessarily secret with zero indication that
your life is being affected when it is. I did not anticipate
surveillance's ability to enable & augment systematic harassment and
gaslighting. How can we say we know how surveillance affects our life
when citizens are never notified when it's used to harass, intimidate
and extort them?

Why are we normalizing this again? It's not necessary to record
Americans jacking off without their knowledge to catch Bin Laden. Wow
Homeland ... In what country is the war on terror being fought?

<a name="packet-switching-for-the-smart-grid" />

### [Packet Switching for the Smart Grid](#packet-switching-for-the-smart-grid)

Researchers across the world are revitalizing their interests in power
grid technology and solving many electrical engineering problems that
otherwise lay dormant for decades. To Cisco certified networking
enthusiasts such as myself, one particularly interesting area of smart
grid research is power packet routing. To the layman, this essentially
combines the internet and electric power distribution, so your devices
can be connected to the internet by simply being plugged in. This
helps IoT devices quite a bit.

There will be major economic opportunities in the route/switch
hardware used for Smart Grid Packet Switching, if this is the
direction infrastructure evolution takes. The hardware, software and
business models would strongly mirror developments in telecom. This
will essentially be the third generation of telecom switching, where
the first was telecom/PBX and the second was internet route/switch
gear. Every home or office that wants to tap into renewables will need
some of this equipment and in America, it will undergo several ...

#### [Power Packet Routing](http://repository.kulib.kyoto-u.ac.jp/dspace/handle/2433/197379)

![Power Packet Routing](/img/posts/2017-02-27-international-trends-2020/power-packet-routing.png)

Depending on the rollout of other technologies and relevant consumer
behavior, some aspects of smart grid technology may not become
anything more than a good idea. The correct answer here is simplicity
and the problem is designing the next generation of consumer
electronics. Design iteration on these consumer electronics is
incredibly expensive, almost as expensive as maintaining backwards
compatibility. Whether the benefits of new infrastructure outweigh the
costs of implementation in developed countries will determine whether
these technologies will become mainstream.

Power packet switching requires layers of gear similar to Cisco
routers and switches. Furthermore, TDMA-like protocols can send power
and digitized data over the same channel by using something like an
ethernet frame that accompanies a pulse-width regulated burst of
power. Enabling this to work with various voltages, amperages and
wattages requires *either* incredibly complicated component design or
standardization of power distribution components and interfaces for
consumer electronics. What would routing protocols look like for DC
networks in an office? This paper from Kyoto in 2015 explores further:
[Router for Power Packet Distribution Network: Design and Experimental Verification](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7010949/).

The problems that electrical engineers are solving to create
tomorrow's smart-grid are incredibly complicated and just as urgent
for American industry to succeed in the global economy from 2020
through 2040. It is critical to get this right and there quite likely
are singularly correct answers to overarching design patterns
here. Whether the correct answers mesh well with the economics of both
smart-grid rollout and renewables is an enigma. Green issues and
climate change policy will have a huge effect on the apparent
solutions in the smart-grid infrastructure discussion.

For more detail on research conducted in this field, check out this
IEEE publication:
[IEEE Transactions on Power Systems](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/RecentIssue.jsp?punumber=59). Most
of those studies require payment to access, but that's where you can
find all the critical research being done.

Here is a good introduction into some of the high-level design
concepts used to determine viable smart-grid topologies:
[A Review of Architectures and Concepts for Intelligence in Future Electric Energy Systems](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/6915899/). To
understand more about shifting the divide between AC and DC, read this
IEEE publication:
[DC Local Power Distribution: Technology, Deployment, and Pathways to Success](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7480941/).

<a name="quantum-networking-for-instantaneous-transmission-of-grid-state" />

### [Quantum Networking For Instantaneous Transmission of Grid State](#quantum-networking-for-instantaneous-transmission-of-grid-state)

Quantum networking (QN) is like the Ansible from Ender's Game. QN has
incredibly niche applications. It's penetration into hardware will be
determined by its cost and technical requirements, like
superconduction. However, it can cause radically differently hardware
and software design patterns to emerge. It is especially useful in
geographically distributed systems such as GPS, the smart grid or
smart cars, when overcoming the speed of light matters. It's use as a
clock-synching mechanism would be ubiquitous, if technical limitations
could be transcended.

QN will allow for the instantaneous desemination of power grid
state. Machine-learning algorithms can be more efficient when managing
the distribution of power because they never have to query distant
systems for status or wait for state to be synced before making a
decision. Quantum networking could be used in cubesats for the
activation of networked resillience to EMP. As soon as one cubesat
experiences EMP, it broadcasts a warning to other satellites networked
in the same quantum networking channel. These satellites can
immediately activate a cheap, as-needed faraday cage, retaining
operational capability through an EMP blast.

Those who don't understand the engineering limitations imposed by
special relativity or assume quantum networking ot be impossible
wouldn't think about how transcending the FTL barrier with information
transmission radically changes hardware and software. Quantum
networking should be possible with a stochastic communication protocol
and enough spliced pairs of particles, whose entanglement is somehow
maintained. If there is such a thing as cyclical entanglement, it
would be incredibly useful.

#### QN, the Answer to Fermi's Paradox?

> IMO, SETI has failed to find advanced civilizations sprawling the
> galaxy because they only use quantum networking. If there is some
> stochastic communication protocol that allows entangled particles to
> transcend space and enable instantanious communication, that's way
> better than communication via EMR. Once your civ goes black, you
> never go back.

The specifics of quantum networking, particularly whether it's
convenient, cheap and portable, strongly determines how the technology
unfolds. These qualities determine which industries thrive and survive
as other tech that can be dependent on quantum networking
unpredictably changes. QN, its technical limitations
and its evolution represents a huge unknown with massive implications
on how technology will unfold until 2050.

<a name="quantum-networking-telecom-and-fintech" />

### [Quantum Networking, Telecom and FinTech](#quantum-networking-telecom-and-fintech)

> Wonder why I'm busting out billions in valuable business strategy
> and economic analysis? Just remember how the world demanded that
> morally-reprehensible asshole-that-makes-you-think, David Conner,
> was never to be allowed to build a single project. Ever.

QN can break both telecom and fintech. Fintech applications already
benefit greatly from tiny optimizations. For example, the investment
for transcontinental fiber solely for fintech applications makes
business sense. Apparently, milliseconds shaved and dedicated
communication infrastructure pays off. OK, assume QN is real,
bandwidth is not a bottleneck and transmission time is zero. Then,
after transending contraints of spacetime with QN, fintech simply
becomes a game determined by speed of processing data.

However, QN's potential to completely disrupt telecom is much greater.
QN has the potential to create perfect and low energy communication
with high bandwidth. It is completely decentralized and disruptive to
both society and the business model of telecom. There is a complete
loss of regulation over information transfer via control of
infrastructure. Loss of ability to control/monitor information
transmission threatens the business model of telecom and of services
built on top of telecom products. Therefore, telecom could foreseeably
collapse by 2050, depending on the specifics of QN.

> It's this decentralized communicaiton and loss of control in
> particular that terrifies the shadowy cigar-smoking Wizard of Oz
> types that secretly control the world, who aren't afraid to burn it
> to the ground to hang on to power.

QN transforms computing power into something non-locational that
transcends the limitations of spacetime. The CPU processing can occur
anywhere and you can take it everywhere. Processing becomes dirt cheap
and all data processing operations can be communicated over low power
channels. Because energy isn't needed for communcation, consumer
electronics, such as AR headsets become mostly dumb terminals, that
function to display rendered frames of video and coordinate UI
interactions.

The degree of penetration into consumer electronics depends on the
specifics of QN. Will it be cheap? Portable? Low power? Or is QN even
possible? More crucially, what are the teleological consequences to
various combinations of feature sets for QN? How do our lives change
as a result? Can we ever return to a 1950's golden era where privacy
is more than an idea?

<a name="to-supplement-american-exports-stability-in-developing-nations-is-crucial" />

### [To Supplement American Exports, Stability in Developing Nations is Crucial](#to-supplement-american-exports-stability-in-developing-nations-is-crucial)

The AC/DC divide pushes itself from consumer electronics to homes and
gradually expansive groupings of DC electronics systems. As this
transformation ripples across the globe, various viable design
patterns emerge which themselves necessitate hardware products with
increasingly complicated feature sets. This shift creates trillions in
demand for replacement of electric grid infrastructure
*worldwide*. This occurs gradually across three decades.

The mechanics of this flux of demand rippling through the global
economy affect industrialized nations differently than developing
nations with less infrastructure.

The nations with more infrastructure to replace do it more slowly,
which creates a need to gradually shift to new infrastructure. Most of
this requires backwards compatability, complicating design. This
requirement for backwards compatibility limits the payoffs to
infrastructure updates. This might imply that undeveloped nations
benefit with less investment than developed nations.

In the end, we all end up with mostly the same set of capabilities
from upgraded smart grid infrastructure, but less developed nations
are better positioned to receive these benefits faster with less cost
and less design constraints. Therefore, the flux of demand will tend
to strongly impact developing nations, as they get higher payoffs for
cheaper, as long as there is some threshold of stability.

If the US leverages its authority as an international power player to
compel others to help foster stability in these nations, then we can
accordingly position ourselves to help supply that demand. The demand
is a product of the expectation of permanent stablity in these
nations. That is an absolute dependency to expect demand from these
nations. Therefore, the US helps provide stability and profits from
the export of electric grid technology, while retaining the benefits
it receives from the analytics based on smart grid consumption
analytics and uses this data to stay ahead AND help promote the level
of stability that makes it all possible.

<a name="hybrid-power-grids-offer-economically-practical-infrastructure-rollout-to-developing-nations" />

### [Hybrid Power Grids Offer Economically Practical Infrastructure Rollout to Developing Nations](#hybrid-power-grids-offer-economically-practical-infrastructure-rollout-to-developing-nations)

Hybrid power grids are a great intermediate step for building out
infrastructure in rural areas of developing nations. Again, stability
is paramount before taking the first steps.

Islands of isolated power grids can be built out so reachargeable
devices can become a norm in developing nations, especially in rural
areas.  These isolated hybrid power-grids which can harness renewables
infrastructure which generate the commerce and investment required to
fully connect those rural communities to the national power grid. The
topology of these island grids should enable them to be connected to a
single national smart grid later on.  This increased speed to develop
infrastructure in developing countries translates into demand for
renewables, while more quickly providing valuable infrastructure that
empowers people.

With a minimum of infrastructure and by harnessing the power of
Zuckerburg's army of Facebook wifi drones, even Nanu in Northwest
Nigeria can access the latest status updates from his friends.

More seriously, communication helps reduce friction in regional
economies, which translates into commerce which benefits the
people. Most interesting to Facebook data scientists will be how
people with limited exposure to modernization and the global community
initially react. Donning my anthropoligist hat, we need to proactively
understand how to rollout technology to preserve cultures before they
are all assimilated into the Borg.

To understand the
implementation details and economic opportunities, see this paper:
[Economic evaluation of hybrid energy systems for rural electrification in six geo-political zones of Nigeria](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0960148115003377)

<a name="the-smart-grid-affects-real-estate-trends" />

### [The Smart Grid Affects Real Estate Trends](#the-smart-grid-affects-real-estate-trends)

There are predictable dynamics in real-estate that result from the
availability and qualities of smart-grid infrastructure as well as
incentivizations inherent in the economics of infrastructure
installation. These are especially present in urban and high-rise
residential areas. Changes in infrastructure here have long-lasting
consequences, so we're going to want to do this right, so the
smart-grid platform empowers american industry across the world.

A building's capacity for renewable energy production is correlated to
surface area, so as the proportion of volume to surface area
increases, the likelihood of balanced energy utilization drops
rapidly. This is dependent on whether fusion or alternatives like them
become available. Fusion will become the dominant form of energy
production later in the 21st century.

The version and specific features of smart-grid infrastructure for
buildings strongly affects the value, price and marketability of
real-estate. The effect should is more prominent if we expect
incentivization from climate change policies like the Paris Agreement
to actually make a difference.

Smart grid trends in scale from micro to macro predictably influence
real-estate. These are exhibited over varying time scales from years
to decades. Most are similar to real-estate trends involving 20th
century technology.

#### These real-estate trends include:

#### (1) The properties existing interoperability with renewables.

#### (2) The potential of properties to be upgraded with smart grid tech

#### (3) The dynamics of infrastructure rollout for a specific technology

#### (4) The upper bound on renewable wattage for a building

#### (5) Capicity for urban food production

#### (6) Regional dynamics in these trends, such as oversupply of renewable electricity

If one learns the sequencing of and trends surrounding the rollout of
smartgrid technology and maintains visibility into the geographic
distribution of its adoption, real-estate moguls can set up an
event-driven purchasing strategy to profit in the billions. Such a
strategy has incredible synergy with smart-grid infrastructure and
services. With enough capital, you can purchase, upgrade and flip
properties and, with properly allocated investments, you can profit at
every step.

It's like being Jay-Z, listening to the raps you produced in a club you
own and shelling out for a round of chapaign for some VIP's. Champaign
that you own, you manufactured and you distributed.

So if you can influence policy as it crucially relates to real-estate,
you can further massage your profits.  However, someone making the
wrong moves here could cost America trillions. It's actually best to
have someone leading whose incentives strongly align with our options
for economic growth.

# Part Three

The third part in this series is my fave. It covers the transition to
space, the accompanying economic shifts and the evolution of
governence mechanisms. As we approach the apex of globalization, we
reach the end of the Westphalian era. We find that transnationalism
wedges itself in the frame of international law and is used to contort
precedent. Then, as we begin to colonize space, humanity again
rearchitects our outermost paradigms of governance, leading to a
transition away from the brief post-Westphalian period.
