---
title: "Awareness Precipitates from Order Out Of Chaos"
categories: "blog"
tags: "bioinformatics math computer-science philosophy"
headline: "Is Chaos Aware? Is Chaos Alive?"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Under what circumstances does order emerge from chaos? Does it always
present with stratification and interwoven hierarchical
self-similarity? When do the fractal features begin to react to
themselves, reflecting their own images back into themselves? This is
what leads to higher levels of order in chaos. If chaotic systems
yield order that compels some form of ergodicity to emerge, is it
truly chaotic?"
---

There is a novel paradigm for programming. It's name is elusive, but
it seems like a subject of research in theoretical computer science.
This paradigm describes systems of genetic programs built on the
foundations of molecular dynamics. It also helps describe systems in
social physics.

Particle systems are known to be dynamical and to display ergodicity
under some situations. These systems can also be non-linear and thus
are chaotic, implying that minor changes in starting conditions can
result in unpredictable fluctations in system behavior.

<a name="what-is-a-genetic-program" />

# [What is a Genetic Program?](#what-is-a-genetic-program)

Genetic systems have spatially distributed state. In a simplified
framework, the state can be modeled as the binary presence or absence
of some molecule over given ranges of space for every point.  For more
complex frameworks, additional information is relavant to the system's
mechanics, such as the molecule's physical orientation relative to
adjacent molecules. This state is similar to a program's closure --
the variables accessible to its total environment or scope.

<a name="spatially-distributed-state-drives-the-frequency-of-events" />

### [Spatially Distributed State Drives the Frequency of Events](#spatially-distributed-state-drives-the-frequency-of-events)

The arrangement of specific types of molecules in a cell's nucleus
determines the likelihood of interactions between adjacent
particles. Each one of these molecular interactions unfolds in a
unique way, but maps to a set of event types. One such event would be
the activation of an enzyme's active site. There's a limitless degree
of variation in how each event unfolds, but we recognize the result as
being logically the same, since event details map to idealized
representations of the event type.

These interactions change the state of the local space in logically
significant ways, which dramatically alters the likelihood of
subsequent events. To reach for a programming metaphor, you can think
of this as a function that executes with side effects, modifying some
variable external to the function scope.

<a name="event-types-in-genetic-programs" />

### [Event Types in Genetic Programs](#event-types-in-genetic-programs)

In genetic systems, general types of events include enzyme activation,
DNA transcription, epigenetic modifications, chromatin
transformations, miRNA/piRNA amplification of mRNA, and many
others. When RNA polymerase transcribes DNA, producing a strand of
mRNA, this increases the likelihood this mRNA will be translated. The
more copies of this mRNA, the more likely they are to result in result
in protein products, whether the copies originate from transcription
or amplification.

![Strange Attractor](/img/posts/2017-09-14-awareness-precipitates-from-order-out-of-chaos/lorenz-attractor.jpg)

<a name="trees-of-non-deterministic-state-machines-in-chaos" />

### [Trees of Non-Deterministic State Machines in Chaos](#trees-of-non-deterministic-state-machines-in-chaos)

Molecular dynamics is computationally prohibitive. Even determining
the structure of some proteins from amino acid sequences can be
challenging because of this and other reasons. If we simplify the
system, we can reason about it more intuitively. For example, one
could simplify the spatially distributed state to binary presence &
absence of products that interact with nearby products. Networks of
related events can be abstracted with the idea of probalistic state
machines.

By using models of varying complexity, we can design and develop these
genetic programs that operate in sufficiently similar ways, despite
the lack of deterministic behavior. What kind of programming paradigm
is this?

<a name="is-there-a-digital-signiture-inchaos" />

### [Is There a Digital Signature in Chaos?](#is-there-a-digital-signiture-inchaos)

Humanity has been trying to understand the origins of life for
millenia and we're getting very close. Why do these patterns of
behavior emerge in the chaotic system of molecular dynamics? Why do
logically similar representations of particle configurations --
i.e. molecules -- emerge in similar proportions, despite dramatic
variations in their positions in the system. The system isn't defined
by the specific molecular arrangements alone because this can vary
widely and life can handle it.

<a name="signiture-shifts-in-configurational-entropy" />

### [Signiture Shifts in Configurational Entropy](#signiture-shifts-in-configurational-entropy)

As genetic programs execute, this leads to predictable changes in the
distribution and entropy for both molecular configuration and
conformation. These distributions over time are better metrics to
dilineate speciation of genetic programs than measures based on simply
genes or particle state. Identifying patterns over time get us
closer. Spatially distributed state and configurational changes are
the visible prints of probabilistic state machines whose states are
composed of types and metatypes. These state machines represent kinds
of hierarchical event-driven behavior throughout the system.

<a name="sifting-for-signatures-of-decomposd-patterns-in-chaos" />

### [SIFTing for Signatures of Decomposed Patterns in Chaos](#sifting-for-signatures-of-decomposd-patterns-in-chaos)

[SIFT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scale-invariant_feature_transform)
-- scale-invariant feature transform -- is a technique used to
identify features of images, regardless of their scale. An analogy for
SIFT can be applied to the idenfication of decomposed partial patterns
in chaos, resulting in signatures for probabilistic programs. These
patterns are derived from both change and entropy in configurational
and conformation distributions. Their decomposition and application
across various spatiotemporal scales can dilineate and speciate
genetic programs and other programs layered onto chaotic systems.

<a name="programs-in-chaos" />

# [Programs in Chaos](#programs-in-chaos)

These are non-linear and non-deterministic chaotic systems. Their
behavior is definitively unpredictable and sometimes divergent, but by
deconstructing their event-driven aspects, they are programmable,
yielding a new paradigm: chaotic programming. While
[Chaos computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaos_computing)
describes the possibility of logic gates that emerge from chaotic
systems, it's unclear if these are the building blocks for programs in
chaos.

<a name="why-does-order-emerge-from-chaos" />

### [Why Does Order Emerge from Chaos?](#why-does-order-emerge-from-chaos)

Under what circumstances does order emerge from chaos? Does it always
present with stratification and interwoven hierarchical
self-similarity? When do the fractal features begin to react to
themselves, reflecting their own images back into themselves? This is
what leads to higher levels of order in chaos. If chaotic systems
yield order that compels some form of ergodicity to emerge, is it
truly chaotic?

![Form From Chaos](/img/posts/2017-09-14-awareness-precipitates-from-order-out-of-chaos/form-from-chaos.jpg)

<a name="information-representation-without-absolute-parity" />

### [Information Representation Without Absolute Parity](#information-representation-without-absolute-parity)

What is meant by information representations in systems of molecular
dynamics? Examples of these include quark configurations of the
standard model or molecules of atoms. The representations of both can
be combinatorially enumerated from primatives. In reality, each
molecule is different in subtle ways. The atoms will engage in
characteristic modes of vibration, especially after bonding
covalently, but these patterns of vibration are imprinted with
residual information related to the specifics of the atomic
interactions that created the molecule. As always, quantum mechanics
further complicates everything.

<a name="what-makes-a-glucose-molecule" />

### [What Makes A Glucose Molecule?](#what-makes-a-glucose-molecule)

Glucose is made of six carbons and twelve hydrogens. every glucose
molecule is distinct, but for any collection of these 18 atoms that
are close enough, we can measure their similarity or distance from an
idealized glucose conformation. Still, even though each glucose
molecule might have idiosyncratic patterns of vibration, subtly
influencing their transitions between conformations, we still consider
the six-carbon ring a glucose molecule, whatever non-linear transient
physical deformation it might be in.

<a name="form-lies-between-symbol-and-representation" />

### [Form Lies Between Symbol and Representation](#form-lies-between-symbol-and-representation)

This group's quality of glucose-ness is emergent, but still maps to
the branching, combinatorially enumerable, metaphysical forms, whose
definition is constant throughout time and space.  These forms become
increasingly diverse, as do the emergent dynamics whose action depends
moreso on the symbolic identity of the representation than the
constituent parts of the representation.

<a name="is-form-internal-or-external-to-chaos" />

### [Is Form Internal or External to Chaos?](#is-form-internal-or-external-to-chaos)

Are the definitions of molecules defined outside the chaotic system?
Imagine a simulated system with mechanics similar to molecular
dynamics. In such systems, increasingly complicated forms emerge, some
of which could be externally defined, yet this is not necessary.  A
handwritten digit recognition network does not know anything about
digits or handwriting. Likewise, the simulated chaotic system above
can have mechanics based on emergent forms, which may or may not be
defined externally. Still, internal or external, the dynamics of the
system are dependent on the emergence and interaction of these forms,
which become stratified in more layers.

<a name="system-mechanics-defined-by-forms-and-symbols" />

### [System Mechanics Defined by Forms and Symbols](#system-mechanics-defined-by-forms-and-symbols)

At higher levels of order, from molecules to genetics to multicellular
organisms, forms exert a greater range of influence on the system,
which itselfs drives ineffibility. The mechanics of the system,
especially in animals or entities with awareness, become decoupled
from the mechanics that define the constituent parts. Yet, further
reflections of its forms refracted through the mechanics of the
chaotic system itself will always yield higher order over time.

<a name="chaos-with-perfracted-forms" />

### [Chaos with Perfracted Forms](#chaos-with-perfracted-forms)

That is, this kind of chaotic system will always build higher levels
of abstaction in form, which can be internal or external. For the
purposes of programming, the forms can be externalized to optimize the
initial state of the system, against the complexity of chaos. This can
allow us to identify systems which guarantee stability for
increasingly higher stratification of form, where the stability can
begin to be itself driven by the order within chaos. Eventually that
order must yield dynamics reinforcing reactivity to the system itself,
giving rise to system's awareness of itself.

<a name="is-chaos-aware" />

# [Is Chaos Aware?](#is-chaos-aware)

Chaotic systems whose behavior is parameterized by representations of
information internal to the system always have the capability to
produce increasingly higher levels of order within them. Given a
degree of stability, can we be certain that these
representation-reflecting chaotic systems always produce behavior
increasingly dependent on the representations themselves? Does this
mean that some chaotic systems will, with certainty, produce order,
then stability, then hierarchical stratification of internal state
representations and finally awareness or life?

<a name="ergodicity-of-order-in-chaos" />

### [Ergodicity of Order in Chaos](#ergodicity-of-order-in-chaos)

Are such systems required to be a certain size or have a density and
rate of element interactions? To study this in particular, it would
require an analogy to
[Ramsey Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramsey_theory) for
information representations and order in chaotic systems.

What thresholds of stability, structure and form render awareness
possible? Does this imply that higher-order phenomena of some systems,
like awareness, intelligence, consciousness and language, are
themselves ergodic under some conditions? For these systems, is chaos
itself alive? Are there mathematic systems which produce these
phenomena, given enough running time? Is there an event horizon beyond
which order becomes asymptotically convergent? If so, does this always
lead to a singular destination?

What does this mean about the technological singularity? Is this our
planet's local ergodic destination?
