---
title: "International Trends 2020: Universal Basic Income"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> I'm not trying to win a popularity contest here.

UBI is attractive because it appears to meet certain inevitable needs.
Automation will eventually create sky-high unemployment rates, thereby
triggering social unrest. However, the second and third order effects
of UBI's implementation are catastrophic, so it is incredibly unwise
to assume UBI to be an inevitable economic development. It is not the
need for UBI that is exigent, but the need to handle unavoidably high
rates of unemployment.

### [Why Does Silicon Valley Care So Much?]()

Why do you hear so much from Silicon Valley entrepreneurs about UBI?
Because they recognize the effects their products will unavoidably
have on labor markets and are wise enough to position themselves in
anticipation. As more products are virtualized and more nodes in the
economy are singularized into Silicon Valley's products, where do the
jobs go and what happens as currency flows into the hands of fewer and
fewer? So if UBI dispenses tons of artificial liquidity into the
economy, who do you think will benefit most as products are
virtualized?

Silicon Valley's desire to posture themselves to handle unemployment
is not selfishly motivated. They know it's real and genuinely want
handle this, but the people affected will look for people in power who
profited from business and policy.

### [Predicting the Progression of Unemployment]()

Computational complexity of specific problems determines
the degree to which automation affects the economy, as well as this
trend's timing, pacing and completeness. Additionally, the quantum
computing's availability and applicability of causes a second major
wave in the trend of automation.

### [The Employer of Last Resort]()

The correct answer is an option for universal service. That is, the
government becomes the employer of last resort. This solution avoids
product-classification, artificial regulation of markets, the
complexity of a possible dual currency system and all the resulting
economic distortion. However, this solution does not avoid the need
for the government to finance this labor. National service also
requires that we establish logistics and operations mobilize between
20 and 100 million Americans. This must be done five to ten years
ahead of time.

### [What We Build Ends Up Building Us]()

The main advantage to National Service over UBI is that what we build
ends up building us. We need to rebuild infrastructure anyways.

# The Pragmatic Implementation of UBI

UBI can be packaged in various forms, including tax credits and other
systems of wealth redistribution. The pragmatic implementation of UBI
is disappointing and even when expenditures of UBI cash aren't
regulated, it still results in economic distortion and disruption of
incentivation structures. In the long-term it is economically
unsustainable, but the problems it addresses are unavoidable.

UBI where expenses are controlled ends up being a transition into a
command economy. Several of the following criticisms below only apply
to UBI when its usage is regulated, but can still be extended to be a
criticism of tightly regulated economies in general.

### Product Classifications and Restriction of UBI Expenditures

UBI just will not work without mechanisms in place to ensure that
people spend UBI on actual living expenses. It requires infrastructure
for monitoring purchases and reprimanding abuses of UBI income.
Without restricting UBI expenditures, there will be individuals and
groups who will siphon away the government liquidity injected into
society. Those groups include your friendly neighborhood drug dealer
as well as corporations like Starbucks selling lattes for $5.

### Regulated UBI is a Pseudo Currency

The system of product classifications essentially creates an economic
system with two currencies. Instead of a simple dollar *for all debts,
public and private*, the dollar becomes the currency of the rich and
employed, who can buy whatever they want. For the rest of us, an
actual UBI policy meant to mitigate unintended consequences instead
produces another unintended consequence: a pseudo-currency. The UBI
dollar is not for all debts, public and private. It is for all debts
that are valid living expenses. This essentially turns the government
into your mom, who might give you money as long as it is spent on
something she knows you really, really need.

### Product Classification Determines Marketability

Think about the implications of this in context with the UBI's raison
d'etre. Our country would only ever consider UBI because we need to
mitigate the effects of unemployment rates ranging from 10 - 50%.
Without some policy in place to handle the second and third order
effects of automation, unemployment rates such as these are realistic
for the 2030's. If UBI is the policy utilized to ameliorate this, then
for 10 - 50% of the population without full-time employment, their
income is almost completely in UBI pseudo-dollars.  The set of
products a UBI-dependent person can purchase is almost totally limited
to government-approved products.

### Regulated UBI is a Big Government Nightmare

If the government restricts the purchasing power of a major segment of
population, this means that only UBI-approved products are viable in
the marketplace. To increase the marketability of products in a UBI
system, then lobbying to have it approved can make or break your
business model. This inserts bureaucracy into every facet of life. In
a very simple way, gives the government an unimaginable amount of
power and sets up the government to be used as a tool to achieve
economic ends. So, what happens?

### The Lobbyists Win

What results? A massive incentive to lobby for the reclassification of
products and to enact major changes in UBI policy implementation. In a
UBI system, what's worth lobbying for? Increased marketability. Yet,
restricting the purchasing power of UBI via product classification is
the only way the government can fairly dispense cash to the
chronically unemployed without having the liquidity spent on Starbucks
lattes and other vices. If the corporate lobbyists win and everything
is classified as a UBI product, it doesn't work. And on the flip side,
a dual-currency system where nothing is marketable unless lobbied to
regulators Washington places power in the hands of regulators and
causes economic turbulence.

### Regulation and the Vulnerability of Democracy to Subversion

Regulatory frameworks can be manipulated via suggestion or outright
subversion, amplifying inefficiencies in tightly regulated markets.
This leads to a less competitive domestic economy, compared to other
players in the global economy. Manipulating regulatory rules and the
institutions that create them is a weapon in economic warfare. This
weapon becomes more powerful as the degree of amplification that
second and third order effects via regulatory rules have on markets.
Additionally, the number of regulatory rules needed in a UBI system
grows as the system evolves.

Worst of all, even if groups or corporations don't leverage regulation
as a tool for economic manipulation, the government is unable to
perform its responsibilities. This leads to inefficient markets,
fluctuating prices for both products and financial assets, and general
price increases for products across the economy.

### UBI Decentivizes and Stagnates Innovation

Disappointing NEET's and basement dwellers nationwide, the pragmatic
implementation of UBI creates economic turbulence and renders the
domestic economy vulnerable to global competition. The regulation
deincentivizes innovation and stagnates the process by which
innovative new products can become marketable.

Business is about developing assumptions in contrast to the prevailing
understanding that enables someone to posture their product or service
in anticipation of changing trends. This aspect of business is
fundamental. The shifting long-term objectives and confusing
implementation details of UBI policy, as they are commonly understood
by the public, lead to an inability to make lasting assumptions about
economic trends. In anticipation of shifting policy that invalidates
these assumptions, investors and entrepreneurs evaluating a business
model will mostly refrain from investing. There's no point in
financing a business whose model is invalidated by policy changes,
potential or inevitable.

Generally, any detraction from the ability to make valid predictive
assumptions that hold true over time impairs the identification and
execution of economically viable opportunities. Cost and risk become
difficult to measure or are measured using a model invalidated by
future policy changes. If one can assume that there are no policy
changes, then investors have a much larger risk appetite, which leads
to higher growth amid stable policy conditions. Heavily regulated
environments with high policy turnover, high barrier to entry and an
inherently limited market do not promote innovation.

These generalizations about business are related to
[induction puzzles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Induction_puzzles),
where the ability to make assumptions via inductive logic allows one
to carve away at the problem space. One uses induction to
combinatorially evaluate valid configurations of the system. If
induction is required, then the difficulty of the problem is
exponentially more complex. Potential policy changes essentially add
variables to be combinated with induction. That's why you should
diversify your asset portfolio.

### Studies Need to Focus on Systemic Effects of UBI

- this results in myopic insights

### Prices and Their Trends Vary Geographically

# Regulated UBI is Catastrophic to Capitalism

Capitalism essentially harnesses the same math behind machine learning
to create evolutionary dynamics. These "reified maths" form the
invisible hand that confers advantage to the best marketed, best
formulated or best packaged products. Free market systems reduce
inefficiencies in an economy, delivering more value to citizens
domestically and making the economy more competitive globally.

A poor implementation of UBI will trigger a collapse of capitalism.
Captilism isn't capitalism at all when an authority artificially and
severely restricts choice. This places enormous power in the hands of
regulators in Washington and the lobbyists who court them. The
regulators decide who wins and who loses in a market and they are
inept at doing so. The scale of inefficiency increases which causes an
aggregate increase in prices across all types of products, since any
product on the economy has a list of component products in its
dependency tree. So, price increases are higher for the consumer
because those products are higher up the food chain, so to speak.

This dynamic creates a feedback loop, which is just one of many
between the mechanisms for amount/distribution of UBI provided and the
amplification of UBI-driven effects in the economy like price
stability and market efficiency. The effects are more strongly
pronounced when UBI transactions are regulated.

The price inflation above is related to the relative value and demand
of goods. It may occur alongside currency inflation, which is all but
certain because the tax volume cannot be established through
*competitive and profitable corporate enterprise*, which means
government expenditures must be financed through credit via central
banks. From a systems theory perspective, the price inflation and
currency inflation effects do not add, they multiply. And, given the
strong need to finance with credit, the dependency on central banking
then strongly influences international currency markets and foreign
currency reserves. The question is not whether expenditures and credit
of this magnitiude it will influence currency markets and reserves,
but how.

###

Economics without mathematics modeled on graph theory is dangerously
oversimplified. Linear and non-linear systems modeled on top of graphs
can be understood at a high level through analysis of feedback loops
and systems theory. Economic manipulation and micromanagement
inevitably results in unintendend amplification to these feedback
loops, which results in general instability, poorly priced assets,
market inefficiency, misguided behavior patterns, misallocation of
wealth, and wholly artificial trends driven by small groups of
elitists with the right connections and influence. Generally speaking,
the combinations of positive and negative feedback loops in such a
system compose to amplify with magnitude of *products* of individual
effects and not *sums*. Such systems function healthiest and can be
most reliably predicted when left to function for themselves and when
artificial manipulation is restricted or at least transparent.

# The Progression of Automation in Labor Markets

The perceived and actual ROI of employment roles depends on the degree
to which each role's tasks can be automated. For roles involving a
more complicated arrangement of tasks, the ability to completely
automate that role is inherently diminished. The structuring of roles
to task types changes as the labor markets evolve. Generally, if an
employment role involves a simpler set of task types, that role can be
automated away more quickly. If the set of task types is more complex,
there is a greater need for generalized AI. For each task type, the
complexity of the solutions nearly completely determines its potential
to be automated.

### Uber

- Uber is a perfect example of how automation gradually overtakes
  employment roles within a business or industry.
  - Uber essentially automated the taxi dispatcher and the task of
    navigation for drivers.
  - Once the problem of driving is tractibly solved, it would appear
    economically advantageous to automate the driver. Uber may decide
    that it wants to continue offering drivers or some such
    formulation of its product, since a driver affects the customer
    experience.
    - Also, with drivers, Uber has a platform composed of people
      invested in Uber's success. These drivers also act as vectors
      for propagating dynamics through social networks (i.e. marketing).
  - So, the point is, there are roles which can be automated, where
    automation appears to pay off on the surface. Yet, in the long
    term, automation may instead strongly detract from certain aspects
    of your business and product, especially the customer experience.
    Total automation removes human social dimensions from your
    product. Factors like these were ubiquitous before the 21st
    century, so effects from their presence or absence in a product is
    not well understood.

### Mental Labor

It's a common assumption, but mental labor is not safe. In fact, these
are some of the easiest and most effective roles to automate. For
roles involving mental labor, a trend will be to automate stages in
the role's decision making process, exposing vital data points in a
user interface. From there it's mostly thumbs up or thumbs down: the
employee in the mental labor role makes decisions as data is presented
to them. This essentially harnesses as
[dimensionality reduction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensionality_reduction),
which is required for mitigating computational complexity in machine
learning.

With respect to dimensionality reduction, the curse of dimensionality
is not kind to humanity in the age of automation, where it before
allowed us to solve problems which would otherwise be intractible. For
almost any task type, if the most complete analytical solution is
intractible, there is almost certainly an efficient formulation
involving clustering and dimensionality reduction. This forms the
basis of a tractible analytical approximation to the original
solution.

> Groundhog Day: on February 2nd, to predict the weather for the next
> six weeks, a computer can either completely process all the
> differential equations to predict the weather, or it can watch and
> see whether Punxsutawney Phil returns to his hole.

Of course, there is no actual connection between the two. But without
needing to understanding the connection, a computer can identify
seemingly uncorrelated variables which can be use to construct an
approximate solution. The more data, the more accurately its
construction of approximated solutions can be leveraged.

What that common assumption fails to grasp is the computational
capacity of the human brain, which still outpaces the sum of
computational capacity from all supercomputers on Earth. While user
interface for the human brain is weak and requires years of
conditioning, someone in a mental labor is essentially performing many
of the same tasks that computers would. The human brain is
particularly good at identifying and correlating arbitrary data, which
provide data-processing shortcuts to some solution.

A task type that forms a major dependency of AI-driven businesses is
in the data itself: data science, data processing infrastructure and
user interface. In this way, task types like these will be needed at
ever-increasing rates, but eventually, software, data-science and
infrastructure can all be automated. If someone lacks the equivalent
of a master's degree in either math or a field where math is strongly
applied, they are unlikely to be useful for data-science.


###

All in all, the labor markets favor those with highly varied skill
sets, which results in a paradox. Whereas automation leaves many
unemployed in an economy where high variety and proficiency of skills
determine employability, UBI as a policy detracts from the incentive
to work and to develop a highly varied set of skills. Why work if you
don't have to? Why learn or hone your skills in a difficult to
understand, ever-changing economy where the potential payout for each
acquired skill decreases year after year? What results is a cultural
feedback loop that magnifies the effect that automation has on the set
of behaviors humans reinforce. Those with highly varied skill sets
remain employable and work to create tools which render their own
skills obselete.

###

What's left is a socioeconomic structure that neither provides
incentives to work nor rewards hard work proportionately, where the
citizens must maintain technology they don't understand built with
skills they mostly lack. They lack these skills because, while they
were in school, education didn't offer a significant perceived
benefit, at least economically. In turn, these cultural trends could
render the domestic economy vulnerable to global competition. Also,
there are interesting intergenerational dynamics that could emerge,
where the oldest generation has the widest variety of skills, which
are mostly not propagated to subsequent generations.

And this all occurs during the same period of time when generalized AI
may develop into a threat.

# The Employer of Last Resort

So we know that high unemployment rates are inevitable, given the
trajectory of technology and its impact on labor markets. We also know
that continued technological development is inevitable because any
alternative implies unsustainable population growth and/or a
transition of economic power to whoever develops the best
technology. So the question we need to ask is: how do we deal with
unemployment and other economic turbulence?

#### Policy Solutions Include:

#### Do nothing

#### Provide UBI (Ubiquitous Income)

#### National Service

I can't stand either of them because they both generally involve
growing the size of government and increasing its range of influence
on our lives. Still, doing nothing is far worse. Both UBI and National
Service are expensive result in wide-reaching second and third order
socioeconomic effects. However, upon examining the potential higher
order effects, one finds that National Service is far preferable. Many
of the advantages of UBI, like opportunity for innovation and
experimentation, can be realized through much smaller grant programs.

### National Service Catalyzes Sociocultural Transformation

Generally, we find that many of these domestic issues and their root
causes could be avoided or prevented outright, if only people were
more educated, responsible, insightful or temperate. How do you
catalyze your population to develop a robust set of knowledge and
skills? To imbibe a set of beliefs that naturally causes them to live
more responsibly? Given the right opportunities, the right incentives
and an accurate understanding of the world, people generally make the
best decisions for themselves and their families. Many of our domestic
problems are a result of ignorance, lack of foresight, myopic desire
and hopelessness.

The root causes of domestic issues in America are best addressed
through cultural transformation. Without such a transformation,
America is sure to succumb to domestic problems, like unrest, poverty,
economic turbulence and unemployment.

National citizen service can be harnessed to imprint a near-universal
experience or widely-shared types of experiences. If these experiences
are common, they form the basis of pattern languages that help us
communicate and diagnose domestic issues. UBI does not provide this
opportunity for cultural transmission or the imprinting of types of
experiences. Unless one assumes the best case to represent the
majority (e.g. that people will react by altruistically using UBI as
an opportunity for personal development instead of hedonism or
netflix), then national service results in much preferable outcomes,
socioculturally. IMO, this altruistic best case would be rare.

### National Service Drives Social Flux and Tightens the Social Graph

- Formation of highly-connected social networks


In the past, religion has been used to imprint experience types and to
encourage social flux, which induces transmission of information and
beliefs amoung its participants. Religious customs that are social,
like regular attendance of church, drive social flux that trigger
permeation of information through social networks.

### National Citizen Service for Young Adults


- Korea and Isreal are both countries which require mandatory military
  service for young adults.
- Such mandatory service can be leveraged to develop highly varied
  skill sets, making people more employable.
- utilization of human capital to help build the foundations of
  underdeveloped economies, which provides a framework for economic
  growth in the 21st century

### National Service is more expensive than it's worth on the surface

- this will make UBI seem more worthwhile ... it's not

###

- since a goal should be to increase the variety and quantity of skills
  available in the labor force
  - then knowledge should be mapped out and an education system revamped
    for adults
  - the idea is to quantify & measure the skills available and to partially
    leverage national service to develop those skills in the workforce
  - so, after we spend a fuckton of money, we at least have, in the end,
    an incredibly capable citizenry
- how to explain this idea so it sounds different than "community
  college for adults"
  - because i mean for it to be a means of building knowledge/skills
    through experinece in national service,

### what do you do with 20 - 100 million adults?

  - that leaves our labor force competitive and our citizenry capable
  - that build out economic opportunities and options for projection
    of soft power
  - and how do you prepare to train and mobilize this many people without
    significant disruption to the domestic economy

### UBI or National Service Must Be Economically Sustainable

When the government is paying the living expenses of 15 - 50% of the
population, it's hard to imagine this being economically
sustainable. Financing this requires that the government expend either
taxes or credit. If there is correlation between tax volume and
employment, which is certainly the case before the 21st century, then
the government expenditures to mitigate unemployment will be
unsustainable, if not at first, then eventually.

From an entrepreneur's perspective, the purpose of automation is
increase profit margins by reducing costs and improving efficiency.
Yet, a long-term result of automation is unemployment that
necessitates higher government expenditures, increasing the tax burden
on corporations.

One sensible policy option to placate economic turbulence is to tax
the usage of automation, but this paradoxically makes these businesses
less able to compete with those from nations that don't tax
automation. How did globalization affect domenstic manufacturing and
why? Corporations moved overseas because they harnessed the cheapest
source of labor available. That's economics at work and similar
dynamics will be in play if automation is taxed.

If the policy response results in increased economic opportunity,
while enabling American enterprises to remain competitive, then it
will sustainable in the short-term. If it's not sustainable in the
long-term, then hopefully we got something good with all that
money. Ultimately, that will be what we are left with. For example, if
we utilize National Service to rebuild America's infrastructure, then
we have infrastructure. If we utilize National Service to invest in
underdeveloped economies, then American business can leverage those
global markets as a framework for further growth. And, in case of
robot apocalypse, our population has a highly-developed skill set as a
result. But, if we write $30,000 annual checks so that 15 - 50% of our
citizens can watch two-thirds of the Netflix catalog, then we're left
with a population who communicates poorly using sitcom references, but
isn't employable or able to contribute to society.




