---
title: "The Speed of Thought: Social Physics"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---


- TODO: capitalization rules for titles: argh wtf how many times?!

- ![](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/)

![Essais sur la Mechanique Sociale](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/essais-sur-la-mechanique-sociale.jpg)

- ~transvaluation of all (cognition or cognitive faculties or skills)~
  and of all information

- simplifying conceptualization of social physics by observing voice
  communication in video games.
  - in overwatch & other FPS you can't hear the other team signaling,
    but if they leverage team communication well, they can anticipate
    your movements in a way that doesn't expose information to you
  - sign language and pattern language provide a basis for
    communication that is similar to this. the people around you won't
    pick up on it, unless they are trained to do so. if they do pick
    up on languages like this and they aren't supposed to, this alerts
    the illuminati police.

- dissonance that emerges when adversarial networks try to signal
  using the same semiotic signifiers w/ different pattern languages
  (see draft on ephemeral nature of language to understand adversarial
  design of language and signaling)

- [Calculating the configurational entropy of a landscape mosaic](https://www.fs.fed.us/rm/pubs_journals/2016/rmrs_2016_cushman_s001.pdf)

- in this section, use stadium metaphors
  - people behave differently in the shaded sections than in the
    hotter sections. this is the transduction of physical forms of
    energy to social forms of energy.
  - literally the wave. a GIF of the wave in a stadium.
  - TODO: add notes from phone
  - physical conditions => sociophysical conditions
    - how do weather conditions affect the players and the game?
    - how do weather conditions affect the home & visiting crowd

- add photos of new gender/sexuality spectrums to first part
  - this is an example of spectral decoherence and hurts the LGBTQ
    communities because it impairs the brandability of all sexual
    identities

#### Information Consensus/Permanence (Matthew 5:18)

- if sociophysical systems are probabilistic and, thus,
  non-deterministic, can the perpetuation of information (written or
  otherwise) be guarenteed?
  - what level of information is required?
  - how could such a thing be guaranteed in a probabilistic system?

- meaning of "the salt of the earth" in the same chapter.

#### [Radiohead - Lift](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QBGaO89cBMI)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QBGaO89cBMI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

- t



## [A Marathon and Thermopylae for the Spartan](#a-marathon-and-thermopylae-for-the-spartan)

#### &#x2605; [Novel Types of 21st Century Territory and Their Thermopylaean Chokepoints](#novel-types-of-21st-century-territory-and-their-thermopylaean-chokepoints)

#### &#x2605; [An Eden Of Sociocultural Experimentation, Borne From The Idiosyncracic Geography of Greece](#an-eden-of-sociocultural-experimentation-borne-from-the-idiosyncratic-geography-of-greece)

## [Social and Informational Thermodynamics and Convexity](#social-and-informational-thermodynamics-and-convexity)

#### &#x2605; [Thermal Convection of Information](#thermal-convection-of-information)

#### &#x2605; [Humanity's Measures of Connectedness Vary Geographically](#humanitys-measures-of-connectedness-vary-geographically)

#### &#x2605; [Mesopotamia And Mesoamerica: The Old World Connectivity Maximums](#mesopotamia-and-mesoamerica-the-old-world-connectivity-maximums)

#### &#x2605; [North Korea as a Global Minimum of Connectivity](#north-korea-as-a-global-minimum-of-connectivity)

#### &#x2605; [North Korean Paranoia Undermined Their Posture For Economic Development](#north-korean-paranoia-undermined-their-posture-for-economic-development)

#### &#x2605; [All Significant Revolutions Expect Paranoia For Their Violent, Treacherous Transgressions](#all-significant-revolutions-expect-paranoia-for-their-violent-treacherous-transgressions)

#### &#x2605; [North Korea's Strategy Never Had An Endgame](#north-koreas-strategy-never-had-an-endgame)

#### &#x2605; [America and Europe as a Modern Sociophysical Connectivity Maximum](#america-and-europe-as-a-modern-sociophysical-connectivity-maximum)

#### &#x2605; [Artificial Diminuation and Amplification of Information Yields Dangerous Self-Delusion](#artificial-diminuation-and-amplification-of-information-yields-dangerous-self-delusion)

## [The Bird's Eye View of Social Physics](#the-birds-eye-view-of-social-physics)

#### &#x2605; [Do You See What I See?](#do-you-see-what-i-see)

#### &#x2605; [An Infinite-Dimensional Generalization of Physics and Molecular Dynamics](#an-infinite-dimensional-generalization-of-physics-and-molecular-dynamics)

#### &#x2605; [A 19th Century Attempt to Quantify Sociological Phenomena](#a-19th-century-attempt-to-quantify-sociological-phenomena)

#### &#x2605; [How Does The Information Schema Affect The Spatiotemporal Computability?](#how-does-the-information-schema-affect-the-spatio-temporal-computability)

#### &#x2605; [Sports Like Soccer Or Football Are Well-Defined Sociophysical Games](#sports-like-soccer-or-football-are-well-defined-sociophysical-games)

## [Postulates of Sociophysical Systems](#postulates-of-sociophysical-systems)

- TODO: ensure TOC here is properly ordered

#### &#x2605; (1) [There Are Infinitely Many Types of Sociophysical Energy Having Both Linear And Non-Linear Mechanics That Determine Their Equivalence and Interaction Dynamics](#there-are-infinitely-many-types-of-sociophysical-energy-having-both-linear-and-non-linear-mechanics-that-determine-their-equivalence-and-interaction-dynamics)

#### &#x2605; (2) [Mechanics of Social Interactions And Connections Are Physical and Logical, But Increasingly Virtualized](#mechanics-of-social-interactions-and-connections-are-physical-and-logical-but-increasingly-virtualized)

#### &#x2605; (3) [Power Describes The Rate of Energy Fluxing Through Sociophysical Networks](#power-describes-the-rate-of-energy-fluxing-through-sociophysical-networks)

#### &#x2605; (4) [Social Power Depends On Potentials For Types Of Energy Flux, Each Actual And Perceived](#social-power-depends-on-potentials-for-types-of-energy-flux)

#### &#x2605; (5) [Perceived Beliefs Drive Social Power Dynamics Via Positive and Negative Feedback Loops](#perceived-beliefs-drive-social-power-dynamics-via-positive-and-negative-feedback-loops)

#### &#x2605; (6) [Agents Have Varying Degrees Of Autonomy and Individual Definitions Of Energy Types. They Share Traits, Such As Concurrency, Bandwidth and Physicality](#agents-have-varying-degrees-of-autonomy-and-individual-definitions-of-energy-types)

#### &#x2605; (7) [To Hedge Against Domain Complexity, Agents Amplify Perceived Beliefs And Interact In Other Ways](#to-hedge-against-domain-complexity-agents-amplify-perceived-beliefs)

#### &#x2605; (8) [For Timescales Both Small and Large, Each Agent's State and Context Is Constructed From Their Sum Of Experience Via Directed Focus](#each-agents-state-and-context-is-constructed-from-their-sum-of-experience-via-directed-focus)

#### &#x2605; (9) [Spectral Coherence of Knowledge, Information and Agent Context Strongly Influences Conceptualization and Anticipation](#spectral-coherence-of-knowledge-information-and-agent-context-strongly-influences-conceptualization-and-anticipation)

#### &#x2605; (10) [The Evolutionary Dynamics of Social Physics Build Upon Antifragility and the Ideas of Programs in Chaos](#the-evolutionary-dynamics-of-social-physics-build-upon-antifragility-and-the-ideas-of-programs-in-chaos)

#### &#x2605; (11) [Social Circuitry Enables Sociophysical Energy Flows, Where The Superposition Principle Applies Circuit and Network Topologies. All Exist Simultaneously](#social-circuitry-enables-sociophysical-energy-flows-where-the-superposition-principle-applies-to-circuit-and-network-topologies)

#### &#x2605; (12) [Disruption of Connections & Interactions Alters Flow Of Energy & Power, Physically, Logically and Virtually](#disruption-of-connections-and-interactions-alters-flow-of-energy-and-power-physically-logically-and-virtually)

#### &#x2605; (13) [Social, Financial and Other Energetic Flows Signal Interest and Intent Via Frequency, Magnitude and Abstract Spectral Decomposition](#social-financial-and-other-energetic-flows-signal-interest-and-intent-via-frequency-magnitude-and-abstract-spectral-decomposition)

#### &#x2605; (14) [Even When Invisible, Intent is Signified And Clarified By Parallel, Anti-Parallel and Orthogonal Orientations of Motion As They Relate to Laplacian of High-Dimensional Surfaces](#even-when-invisible-intent-is-signified-and-clarified-by-parallel-antiparallel-and-orthogonal-orientations-of-motion-as-they-relate-to-laplacian-of-high-dimensional-surfaces)

#### &#x2605; (15) [Everything is a particle. Everything is a Wave. Even Information, Modeled Holonically](#everything-is-a-particle-everything-is-a-wave-even-information-modeled-holonically)

#### &#x2605; (16) [In Sociophysical Network Topologies, Independence and Connectedness Are Quantifiable](#in-sociophysical-network-topologies-independence-and-connectedness-are-quantifiable)

#### &#x2605; (17) [Information In Holonic, Particle Form Exhibits Complicated Behavior Analogous To Entanglement](#information-in-holonic-particle-form-exhibits-complicated-behavior-analogous-to-entanglement)


There are countless aspects of life that ancient people understood
more clearly than we do today. In many, standing on the shoulders of
giants has yielded crippled versions of ourselves because we were
always molded and die-cast by a typology of life experience now
*decimated* by technology.

#### Into The Tragic Comedy of Fate, I Cast Myself

![Medea -- from Fate! Jesus Christ!](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/fate-caster-medea.jpg)

For the powerful, this is desirable. They can sell us technology to
solve our problems, while our growing dependencies on it
short-circuits the types of life experience that imbue our
worldview. In some ways, this makes us easier to control. We simply do
not have the same sheer drive that powers those of us who have learned
through pain and all the simple joys we'll never know. For all its
benefit, power and utility, Technology can never replace this value of
the struggle. The societies who artificially maintain these mechanisms
enjoy prosperity *and remain strong*.

<a name="a-marathon-and-thermopylae-for-the-spartan" />

# [A Marathon and Thermopylae for the Spartan](#a-marathon-and-thermopylae-for-the-spartan)

At the battle of Marathon, the Greeks defeated the Persians. News of
this victory was so critical that Pheidippides ran over twenty miles
to bear news of it's victory. Every marathon you run is part of a
millenia-old celebration of being the first to deliver a message.

What's the value of a message? How does cheap and free transmission
affect us? How does it lead to progress? The power of a simple message
unimpeded can change the course of civilizations. At Thermopylae, the
brave acts of hundreds of Spartans struck fear into the heart of
Persians and funneled vigor into the hearts of Greeks to rise up and
resist the oncoming hordes. Would this envigorating effect have been
possible if not for the story? *What if it couldn't be told?*

#### Thesus in America - Sails

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/tgIqecROs5M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Look at what disconnection has wrought. No one truly participated in
this willingly. I will wait until I am judged for what I have said and
done.

<a name="novel-types-of-21st-century-territory-and-their-thermopylaean-chokepoints" />

### [Novel Types of 21st Century Territory and Their Thermopylaean Chokepoints](#novel-types-of-21st-century-territory-and-their-thermopylaean-chokepoints)

The importance of Thermopylae to the Spartan victory was their
tactical utilization of the territory. It's the greatest story of
deception leading an army to a chokepoint. Today, with information
warfare, sociohierarchical conflict, economic warfare, there are many
novel kinds of territory. For each type and metatype of territory,
where are the imaginable chokepoints?

<a name="an-eden-of-sociocultural-experimentation-borne-from-the-idiosyncratic-geography-of-greece" />

### [An Eden Of Sociocultural Experimentation, Borne From The Idiosyncracic Geography of Greece](#an-eden-of-sociocultural-experimentation-borne-from-the-idiosyncratic-geography-of-greece)

During the first millinea B.C., a confluence of Greek
technology, culture and geography, encouraged a philosophic
exploration of human life. In particular, the Greek city-states
flourished at a time where reflection on the structure of society
itself was encouraged, where its evolution occured at a rapid pace and
operated long enough without being domineered by an external
force. This itself wasn't unique, but we managed to maintain their
literary tradition. In doing so, we preserved the best record this
phenomenon in Western history.

#### Socrates Engaging the Greek Agora In Philosophic Debate

![Schizophrenic Socrates' Added Nothing of Value To Society With His Constant Akathisia](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/socrates-agora.jpg)

<a name="social-and-informational-thermodynamics-and-convexity" />

# [Social and Informational Thermodynamics and Convexity](#social-and-informational-thermodynamics-and-convexity)

In the ancient world, population growth and movement was tightly
coupled to economic opportunity, constrained by resources, and bounded
by geography. Population quantity drives the total quantity of
information and increases rate at which innovations occur via the
network effect. Population density increases the rate at which
information moves in those sociophysical networks.

Imagine humans as particles with random motion whose individual speed
of vibration depends on available vehicles of transit, intended
destination, resource distribution and other factors. The particles
vibrate in patterns, almost certainly originating from some home point
and returning to it every day. When these particles hit the ocean at a
port, they accelerate like sound hitting a solid barrier, assuming
these people have ships and sails.

<a name="thermal-convection-of-information" />

### [Thermal Convection of Information](#thermal-convection-of-information)

Imagine the sun rising in the Far East. It heats up the air and water,
giving us wind and ocean currents, but doesn't its sociophysical
energy also reverberate through humanity? As the world turns each day,
there is random motion moving from the east to the west, driving
social interactions. Pushing through the noise are faint, low
frequency waves of cultural information rippling over and reflecting
between geographic features. Vacuums of low population density tapers
this resonance. Between the centers of civilization, the dispersion of
information is strained through translingual membrane, limiting the
number of social connections over which information can cross. These
metaphors are not perfect, as behavior was not coordinated and our
modes of transportation were limited throughout history.

#### Land of the Rising Sun: Low-Frequency Sociophysical Currents Emerge from the East

![Land of the Rising Sun Watercolor](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/jp-rising-sun-watercolor.jpg)

<a name="humanitys-measures-of-connectedness-vary-geographically" />

### [Humanity's Measures of Connectedness Vary Geographically](#humanitys-measures-of-connectedness-vary-geographically)

Consider the human population distribution of 5,000 BC. At this time,
we had dispersed from Africa through the Middle East and around the
Black Sea to India, Europe, China, Indonesia and the Americas. At that
time, was there a region more connected than others? The most
connected region was the Middle East. And people less connected?
Those in island nations or beyond the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn,
both of which would incidentally be more likely to understand the
spherical shape of the earth.

<a name="mesopotamia-and-mesoamerica-the-old-world-connectivity-maximums" />

### [Mesopotamia And Mesoamerica: The Old World Connectivity Maximums](#mesopotamia-and-mesoamerica-the-old-world-connectivity-maximums)

As for the Middle East, its high degree of connection, its proximity
to geographic chokepoints and its access to large swaths of ocean
surface area gave it an almost unparalleled economic advantage, which
only grew as time marched on. This region had the shortest actual
distance to the most number of people, and access to the largest
social graph neighborhoods, depending on how you measured it. When
people are more widely spread out, it is more rare to have large 2nd
and 3rd degree networks, which conferred major advantages. Those with
wealth could finance transport and delegate action, which further
helped expand those networks.

The shifting power centers of Olmec, Maya, Inca and Aztec repositioned
the Mesoamerican nexus of connectivity. Why? Strategic control over
the Panamanian isthmus conferred the same economic and sociophysical
benefits as control over the Mesopotamian region. The power centers
shifted in America, just as they did for the center of the Old World.

<a name="north-korea-as-a-global-minimum-of-connectivity" />

### [North Korea as a Global Minimum of Connectivity](#north-korea-as-a-global-minimum-of-connectivity)

North Korea is an example of a major concave depression in
sociophysical graphs. This leads to restricted economic growth and
almost total disconnection of the populace from the outside. Both of
those lead to poor decisions by the North Korean leadership. They are
so disconnected from the rest of the world, coupled with internal
policy to ruthlessly quash all information contradicting state policy,
that their upper leadership isn't allowed to question the highest
leadership.

If the range of 2&deg; neighborhoods of North Korean citizens is
compared against other nations, you'll find that it is incredibly
limited when compared to similarly sized populations. Proportional to
their population, they might be the *most socially-restricted nation
on earth*, which is unbelievably depressing. Pictured below is a graph
visualization of what North Korea's socioeconomic connections might
look like. Alternatively, you can relabel North Korea as "Me" and the
Int'l Economy as "American Society."

#### Graph Visualization of North Korea's Economic Connections

![Economic Disconnection](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/north-korea-disconnected-2.jpg)

How can you compete in the global economy if your regime prohibits
communication with the outside and punishes dissidents with three
generations of family persecution? How can you export products if your
citizens cannot freely establish relationships with people and
businesses in other countries? Some of the fault here lies with NK and
some of it lies with sanctions, but your nation is pursuing nuclear
weapon development and its belligerent PR stunts show no remorse for
this goal. In spite of UN sanctions, the regime undermines its own
potential development of exports and economic competitiveness. You are
missing out on the greatest period of human development because you're
stewing over something that happened four generations ago.

<a name="north-korean-paranoia-undermined-their-posture-for-economic-development" />

### [North Korean Paranoia Undermined Their Posture For Economic Development](#north-korean-paranoia-undermined-their-posture-for-economic-development)

The future of the world lies in the information economy and
information warfare. Today, what matters most is the sociohierarchical
territory and informational territory that sets you up to maintain
prosperity. How can you ever expect to compete in the information
economy with completely restricted access to the internet and
near-zero consumer adoption of internet-capable devices? You can't,
which begs the question: who is informing your leadership's long-term
strategies? In a digital economy, products are informational. NK
citizens simply can't be consumers or producers of content. AFAIK, NK
citizens aren't even allowed to have radios because NK paranoia is
stuck in the 1960's soviet mindset of information control.

<a name="all-significant-revolutions-expect-paranoia-for-their-violent-treacherous-transgressions" />

### [All Significant Revolutions Expect Paranoia For Their Violent, Treacherous Transgressions](#all-significant-revolutions-expect-paranoia-for-their-violent-treacherous-transgressions)

All communist revolutions expect such paranoia *and they use it!* Even
for those non-Marxist revolutions -- viz. all revolutions with
significant turnover of control -- the leadership expects that the
employment of pre-revolutionary subversion to gain sociohierarchical
territory involves dirty tricks with disgusting karma. So, they plan
on using it. But, in trying to undermine any possibility of dissent --
and by being disconnected from the world with poor strategy being
supplied from the largests connections outside -- North Korea has left
itself in a position, where there is zero consumer adoption for
hardware, which is necessary for economic expansion. It's total
paranoia of imperialism has left itself deprived of any economic
opportunity, even if it does pull off being a pawn for initiating
nuclear war. North Korea needs to come to the negotiation table and we
need to sort this out. The first thing that must happen is total
nuclear disarmament and the rest of the world is infuriated that NK
leadership expected to use nuclear weapons as bargaining chips.

<a name="north-koreas-strategy-never-had-an-endgame" />

### [North Korea's Strategy Never Had An Endgame](#north-koreas-strategy-never-had-an-endgame)

North Korea's strategy has no endgame, other than becoming an international
school shooter. Since the 1980's, this strategy has left No hardware
platform for internet, no participation in the information economy, no
media creation tools, no training or education on those tools, no
content production, no culture export, no connections developed and
interactions with the outside are discouraged. How did the North
Korean leadership miss this? Because they artificially dampen all
signal that could be perceived as dissent, wavering, or retreat. This
enables the prolonged development of silent risk and massive tail
risk, as Nassim Tebar would probably put it. NK is actually far-left
with components of far-right ideology.

<a name="america-and-europe-as-a-modern-sociophysical-connectivity-maximum" />

### [America and Europe as a Modern Sociophysical Connectivity Maximum](#america-and-europe-as-a-modern-sociophysical-connectivity-maximum)

America, Europe and the West form the connectivity maximum of the
world. This gives us diversity and some challenges related to
multiculturalism. However, those issues must be overcome eventually
and we did so early. Further, our populations are inundated in
collective understanding of even cultural minutia via the
encouragement of connection to peoples of all ethnicity and
culture. This starkly departs from the traditional wisdom in the Art
of War where you insulate your culture from any external influence,
yet in the modern world, it results in perhaps the greatest advantage
that we have. Why? The world is one and always has been one. We must
overcome these issues at some point and we have, which has also made
America and Europe and other highly connected non-Western regions
connectivity maximums. This fuels our platform for economic growth.

<a name="artificial-diminuation-and-amplification-of-information-yields-dangerous-self-delusion" />

### [Artificial Diminuation and Amplification of Information Yields Dangerous Self-Delusion](#artificial-diminuation-and-amplification-of-information-yields-dangerous-self-delusion)

Furthermore, we'll never find ourselves in an isolated fortress, which
is
[Law #18 of the 48 Laws of Power](https://48laws-of-power.blogspot.com/2011/05/law-18-do-not-build-fortresses-to.html). If
we do not artificially silence this diversity of signal, we can remain
apprised and aware of our nation and developments in the international
world. Instead, it seems we artificially mute signals on the basis
that they are different. Since people often become conditioned to fear
that which they don't understand, it shrinks the needles in the
haystack that are precious, distinct forms of information, which
should clue us into developments we must react to. In highly
permeable, tightly connected information environments, we are more
likely to receive those signals, unless we enact policy to stimulate
widespread fear over anything that might be different. There is some
information that is dangerous, but we are throwing the baby out with
the bathwater.

<a name="the-birds-eye-view-of-social-physics" />

# [The Bird's Eye View of Social Physics](#the-birds-eye-view-of-social-physics)

When an eagle looks down, using it's impressive eyesight to soak up
what it can, does the world appear as 3D or 2D? It's perspective from
that height provides a dimensional reduction and the details it
absorbs enables it to see shapes and patterns emerge in individual and
social behaviors, unaware to the animals engaging in those
behaviors. Humanity might think itself peaking the top of the food
chain, but birds of prey are also elevated among the rest of animals
in many ways. This status creates the imagery and fuels the strong
symbolism that motivates the depiction of birds of prey in national
flags, as well as their prominent place in myth and culture. By
observing birds of prey from a distance, if you're lucky enough to see
on, you can indirectly glean information about your surroundings, if
you're wise and foolish enough to make those inferences.

#### A View of the Alps From An Eagle's Perspective

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/fechyo4W53s" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a name="do-you-see-what-i-see" />

### [Do You See What I See?](#do-you-see-what-i-see)

Sociophysical systems are usually too complex to yield perfectly
scientific evidence, these metaphors and metrics are invaluable tools
yielding philosophic insights. They sharpen our inductive reasoning
for social behavior and history, giving us options that will yield
concrete scientific evidence. Most social systems modeled with
physical components are incomputable, but computational social science
is harnessing these ideas today.

- (cite study: about virtual/physical comm. networks)

<a name="an-infinite-dimensional-generalization-of-physics-and-molecular-dynamics" />

### [An Infinite-Dimensional Generalization of Physics and Molecular Dynamics](#an-infinite-dimensional-generalization-of-physics-and-molecular-dynamics)

Information has a life of its own. Nowhere does this become more clear
than in social physics, which is a mathematical framework for modeling
idealized social behavior with physical constraints. The initial
revelations of social physics yield mind-blowing epiphanies for
structuring, objectifying and quantifying social interactions. The bad
news: almost every problem is incomputable. Still, one can extrapolate
incredibly useful insights from the mere philosophic exploration of
social physics.

<a name="a-19th-century-attempt-to-quantify-sociological-phenomena" />

### [A 19th Century Attempt to Quantify Sociological Phenomena](#a-19th-century-attempt-to-quantify-sociological-phenomena)

#### This Ain't Nobody's First Rodeo

Social physics was originally developed in the 19th century (links?)
to quantify sociological situations and particularly how the behavior
of players in social games are affected by the imposition of physical
constraints. It originally borrowed heavily from classical mechanics
and now overlaps with quantum mechanics, since non-deterministic games
are loaded with probabilistic mechanics. Social physics can help us
understand team sports, advanced
[swarm behavior](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarm_behaviour), the
geometric mechanics of battle tactics, cocktail parties and the finer
mysteries of feng shui. Each of those activities (determined by the
physics of the space) space and players in a social game with rules,
though with feng shui, the game and players may be less clearly
defined.

#### Essais sur la Mechanique Social (Winiarski, 1898)

![Essais sur la Mechanique Sociale](/img/posts/2017-10-10-speed-of-thought-social-physics/essais-sur-la-mechanique-sociale.jpg)

<a name="how-does-the-information-schema-affect-the-spatio-temporal-computability" />

### [How Does The Information Schema Affect The Spatiotemporal Computability?](#how-does-the-information-schema-affect-the-spatio-temporal-computability)

If you begin modeling games where players have their own sets of
information, social physics is rendered irrevocably and hopelessly
incomputable, almost immediately. Each additional layer presents its
own challenges of tractibility and data structure countability.
Simulations that can be parallelized with a GPU have tight information
schema requirements. Knowing this, how do you identify what can be
modeled and made known? How do you structure an organization's
logistics and data collection requirements to efficiently model social
phenomena and information dynamics? What's the difference between what
can be simulated and what can be inferred via data science?
Specifically, what schematic components and strucural patterns
increase the space and time required for computation?

#### &#x2605; Do the players contain their own copies of information or is it shared?

#### &#x2605; Do instances of information adhere to a defined schema shared among all players?

#### &#x2605; Can the information schema be modified?

#### &#x2605; Can the information be known in totality for the game?

#### &#x2605; Can a player access their own information in totality or reflect on its schematic structure?

#### &#x2605; Do players need to make inferences based on the information schemas of other players?

From the short list above, it isn't clear which adds the most
complexity or how, but players almost always operate with incomplete
understanding in social situations. They can do so effectively because
they've been conditioned to develop sets of proactive and reactive
behaviors sidestep the issues of scale and complexity. The particular
tactics to handling or circumvent complexity create their own dynamics
for information in sociophysical games. Information overload can
negatively affect players. The topics pertaining to information schema
and information reflection add an incomprehensibly infinite degree of
complexity. For the mathemtaticians, yes, modifiable schemas with or
without reflection are definitely uncountable.

<a name="sports-like-soccer-or-football-are-well-defined-sociophysical-games" />

### [Sports Like Soccer Or Football Are Well-Defined Sociophysical Games](#sports-like-soccer-or-football-are-well-defined-sociophysical-games)

All of this means that players have to be good at handling
information, but better at balancing uncertainy and risk with
goal-seeking behavior. If the game being modeled is soccer or some
other team sport, there are subtle sociophysical micro-tactics that
can vastly improve team performance, such as ensuring visibility and
other mechanics of assessment and communication. If the team works
together and can share its understanding of the state of the field,
this can help immensely with coordinating tactics.

There are other physical aspects of soccer which are also modeled by
social physics, such as the typical FIFA 2017 stats: speed, energy,
skill, etc. The best players in the world can play together, but
unless they can read each other and anticipate the coordination of
tactics with limited signaling, the games will be reduced to the more
physical stats and positioning.

Social physics is distinguished from physics and simple models of
swarm behavior by providing a framework where players react to
informational components and dynamics emerging from information. This
framework starkly contrasts simple probabilistic models for social
behavior with its focus on the spatial components and particle
interactions.





<a name="postulates-of-sociophysical-systems" />

# [Postulates of Sociophysical Systems](#postulates-of-sociophysical-systems)

Extrapolating from a basic assessment of the math, there are
implications and ramifications that attain preponderance, standing
above everything else. By failing to fully understand sociophysical
phenomena, by stubbornly clinging to some ideological modes (of ...)
or by refusing to allow adaptation, we fall victim to Nietzche's
danger of dangers.

![Magnetic Field Lines]()

Today, the world needs everyone on the same page. In order to operate
cooperatively in more virtualized sociophysical systems, we must first
develop a clear understanding of their purely physical counterparts.
Psychological and sociological understanding has always been the
mostly useful knowledge, especially when there was little technology
and nothing to use for the construction of great works but the hands
of men.

<a name="there-are-infinitely-many-types-of-sociophysical-energy-having-both-linear-and-non-linear-mechanics-that-determine-their-equivalence-and-interaction-dynamics" />

### (1) [There Are Infinitely Many Types of Sociophysical Energy Having Both Linear And Non-Linear Mechanics That Determine Their Equivalence and Interaction Dynamics](#there-are-infinitely-many-types-of-sociophysical-energy-having-both-linear-and-non-linear-mechanics-that-determine-their-equivalence-and-interaction-dynamics)

Just as the laws of particle physics are modeled as objects
interacting energetically with shared fields, sociophysical phenomena
also operate with fields and energy. The difference is that social
physics is the ultimate abstracted generalization of physical laws and
thus, to say that it is infinitely more complex means you have a
limited conceptualization of infinities.

The most important shared field is the field of attention. In all
physical and virtual social interations, people want to know what
other people are interested in: they are asserting and measuring
perceived beliefs to mitigate the system's complexity. Imagine this
field in a physical example to entertain an idea of the maximal and
minimal strength of force on this field. You're at home, alone. Does
anyone know where you are? Is your behavior going to influence someone
else's behavior? No. Without internet, your impact on the shared field
of attention is nearly zero.

![Stadium]()

Now imagine yourself at a concert or a football game. People exert
influence on the shared field of attention with their focus. Their
field of view, as it is perceived by other people, exhibits an effect
on the field of attention. People are always looking to see where
other people are looking. The laplacian of a field tells us how this
changes, when and where. So, at a concert or football game, if all the
people were particles, they would be magnetically aligned to the field
lines. At a concert or football game, there would be a nearly maximal
value for the deformation in the field.

Sociophysical systems are (very similar).

- of energy equilalence, governing movement and transduction
- There varying metrics and means of equivalence for the movement of Energy
  - these forms of energy are moving across various kinds of spaces

- what is universal among all the types of energy? anything?
- examples of types of energy

<a name="mechanics-of-social-interactions-and-connections-are-physical-and-logical-but-increasingly-virtualized" />

### (2) [Mechanics of Social Interactions And Connections Are Physical and Logical, But Increasingly Virtualized](#mechanics-of-social-interactions-and-connections-are-physical-and-logical-but-increasingly-virtualized)

Via these shared fields, people influence each other via sociophysical
energy exchange. Unlike the electromagnetic field, these fields are
individually conceptualized, so there are infintely many of them and
infinitely many energy types. Moreover, equivalent exchange of energy
is almost never preserved, but there are mechanics of energy exchange
and transduction.

These fields can be imagined as spaces with the potential to
facilitate sociophysical energy exchange -- with a strong departure
from physics: there is pronounced variation in the topology of the
spaces. There are field with physically derived topology, graph
topology and any kind of conceivable topology. These are simply tools
for attempting to model what is far more complex than can ever be
known.

The importance of sociohierarchical structures has always entailed the
use of logical, non-physical components to strategize or anticipate
sociophysical phenomena. These topologies, either fully or partially
derived from logical relationships between people, groups, or other
nodes, form fields where the energy mechnics operate like electrical
circuits. These are emergent logical topologies, overlayed onto
physically interacting particles via the social graph funct.

Electrical networks are an example of physical phenomena with a
logical graph-based structure overlayed on top. When determining the
structure and components of circuits, would you first consider the
physical proportions of the components or the types and structures of
components? What happens when you remove components like resistors or
capacitors from series or parallel circuits? Does it help much to
first think about physically derived microphenomena of the system,
like the [Skin Effect](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skin_effect)? Or
would you start with top-down methods to examine the phenomenological
end-goals of circuit structure: whether it a logical network of
components forms an amplifier or a transformer?

In reasoning about these systems and the range of possibilities, the
resulting dynamics and mechanics are neither purely physical or purely
logical. By logically reasoning about the systems and gradually
accreting structure, we attain flexible, efficient skill to
combinatorially evaluate circuit structures to achieve a maximum of
phenomenological agility.

On top of the physical world, we have constructed technology that
facilitates instantaneous communication, starting with the telegraph.
This has rapidly progress, giving us the phone system, the early
internet and culminates in nearly superconnected networks of optical
cable. The world is well aware this means the digital world is more
relevant than the physical. What we're not ready for is the pure
manisfestation of the metaphysical into the physical realm.

Today, almost all human communication is, in full or in part, being
conducted across this logical communication infrastructure. The
majority of artifacts of human interaction and human activity are now
purely or mostly digital. Most critically, the physical aspects of
sociophysical conceptualization, strategy and tactics are less
dominant. The virtual and logical aspects are instead being amplified
to such a degree whereby the physical is almost secondary. The
logically derived topologies, such as sociohierarchical structures and
relationships, now matter more than ever.

Therefore, our generations should begin conceptualizing their world
primarily in terms of these logically and informationally derived
spaces. Again, these tools for strategizing and managing human
interactions have always existed in one form or another, but hidden
from most. However, this purely physical world is no longer the one we
live in, but if we do not retain our individuality, our humanity and
our sense of purpose, nihilism will rapidly corrode through any system
structure, no matter how antifragile.

![CPU Chip Fabrication]()

What is the CPU? What does it represent? Mastery over physics and
solid-state chemistry? Doesn't it also represent mastery over logic,
math, Gödel, Turing and especially [Von Neumann machines]()? Nevermind
that, it represents the manisfestation of all this knowledge into the
physical plane, whereby the metaphysical imbued into the structure of
matter itself. This is the physical reification of a materialistic or
idealistic conception of the metaphysical: a machine capable of
executing instruction sets, numbered according to
[Gödel's](https://www.perrymarshall.com/articles/religion/godels-incompleteness-theorem/)
[trancendental](http://users.ox.ac.uk/~jrlucas/Godel/implic.html)
[revelations](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/goedel-incompleteness/)
on the countability of mathematic structures themselves. They are
Logic, borne into demigod form, themselves capable of virtualizing
physical systems.

> BTW, I knew the above links on Gödel's Completeness Theorums were
> relevant, but I couldn't understand the academic language. Without a
> quick study, I still can't really tell you the difference between #1
> and #2. Why? *SOCIAL ISOLATION*.

<a name="power-describes-the-rate-of-energy-fluxing-through-sociophysical-networks" />

### (3) [Power Describes The Rate of Energy Fluxing Through Sociophysical Networks](#power-describes-the-rate-of-energy-fluxing-through-sociophysical-networks)

When conceiving social circuitry, people, groups and roles all form
components in networks that conduct, magnify, time and regulate
sociophysical energy flows. Electrical components can be conceivably
form metaphors for a typology of social circuit network design.  In
such circuits, social energy flows through networks where all
components are connected. Disrupting any power flow and affects all
power flows. Changing, reversing, inserting, tuning the components
influences the flow of power and energy flux across the rest of the
systems.

###### Nietzsche, in Twilight of the Idols ######

> Even a rapid estimate shows that it is not only obvious that German
> culture is declining but that there is sufficient reason for
> that. In the end, no one can spend more than he has: that is true of
> an individual, it is true of a people. **If one spends oneself for
> power, for power politics, for economics, world trade,
> parliamentarianism, and military interests** — *if one spends in the
> direction the quantum of understanding, seriousness, will, and self-
> overcoming which one represents*, **then it will be lacking for the
> other direction.**

Perhaps using different terms, Nietzsche was attempting to explain how
the opportunity costs of both sociophysical energy investment or
alterations of sociohierarchical components. When conceptualized with
the language of circuitry, this becomes more clear. Did Nietzsche
understand what one can attempt to quantify with non-linear energy
mechanics? In such non-linear systems, energy equivalence is almost
never preserved.


Similar to power in electrical networks, sociophysical measures of
power are defined as the potential to trigger flux through social
networks and the rate of that flux. In this way, other metaphors can
be applied to power and information flows; voltage, amperage, logic
gating, albeit these operate in an extremely-high dimensional
way. Further, there is no comparison between the near infinite and the
infinite: infinitely dimensional models are functionally divergent
from their dimensionally-bounded linear counterparts. There is the
curse of dimensionality, but then infinite dimensional math imposes
profanity-inducing limitations...

> I, however, do not understand the idiosyncrasies of infinitely
> dimensional math. I am only of aware of this functional divergence
> in modeling these problems, as well as dramatic shifts in
> application of theorums. I only mention this to emphasize the
> differences in both dimensional scale and fundamental inferences
> relevant for dealing with the laws of physics, when abstractly
> generalized to conceptualize sociophysical systems.

#### Many Consequences of Sociophysical Energy Flux Can Be Imagined:

#### &#x2605; Physical Change

#### &#x2605; Sociohierarchical Change

#### &#x2605; Belief Structure Change

#### &#x2605; Change or Stagnation in Conditioned Behaviors

#### &#x2605; Informational Change

#### &#x2605; Informational or Hierarchical Schematic Change

So, then *potential for power* is defined as the capacity to project
these changes into the world and *action of power* is defined as the
rate of these changes, however enigmatic power may be to quantify,
since the infinite variety of energy and transduction pathways render
all intractible. Perhaps our inability to understand ourselves is a
curse; perhaps it is a blessing.

The forms above are base types of changes to sociophysical
structures as a result of the exertion of power. What we see in life
are reconfigurations of the above. That is, we see the likes of:

#### Informational Change Yielding Physical Change

#### Informational Change Yielding Eventual Schematic Change On A Social Scale

#### Behavior Change Yielding Long-Term Physical Change

#### Physical Change Yielding Informational Change

![a picture for spacing]()

<a name="social-power-depends-on-potentials-for-types-of-energy-flux" />

### (4) [Social Power Depends On Potentials For Types Of Energy Flux, Each Actual And Perceived](#social-power-depends-on-potentials-for-types-of-energy-flux)

The potential for power and sociophysical flux arises from beliefs of
nodes in the system, both actual and perceived. In this way, belief
and perception can almost independently create types of energy.

Particularly valuable to understanding power flows is the differential
of information available to nodes in the system. While information is
neither linear nor simple, it consistently diffuses from the region of
higher concentration to lower concentration. This could also be
envisioned in terms of charge differential: electricity flows from
areas of higher charge to lower charge. The nodes or cliques with
higher density of information hold the cards; they retain options in
disrupting currents or eddies of sociophysical state in networks with
lower information density, as well as those with spectral content that
appears functionally advantageous.

#### Knowledge is power

If there is already complete disemination of some pieces of
information to a set of nodes, you have diminished the capacity to
influence or restructure those nodes through the titration of
information. These fluid dynamics analogies are overly simplified
because, again, everything is a lower-order conjugation of the above
higher-order forms.

Materialist metaphysics are blasphemous: information and knowledge are
preexistent metaphysical forms; they can be discovered and
rediscovered by anyone. When one uncovers them in isolation, but
doesn't understand the names for these discovered knowledge forms, it
challenges the powerful in their ability to recognize and regulate
that knowledge. So the powerful or their pawns, who don't truly
recognize substance -- but the names of substance -- consisently
underestimate people like this. In the midst of campaigns to project
disinformation into the lives of intelligence threats, these pawns of
their material desires blind themselves because they don't know true
substance and they NEVER did.

In the 21st century knowledge is free. What do you think that means to
the truly powerful, truly knowledgable few?

<a name="perceived-beliefs-drive-social-power-dynamics-via-positive-and-negative-feedback-loops" />

### (5) [Perceived Beliefs Drive Social Power Dynamics Via Positive and Negative Feedback Loops](#perceived-beliefs-drive-social-power-dynamics-via-positive-and-negative-feedback-loops)

Those of us with potential to drive sociophysical flux are like
batteries of social captial. Economic flux operates similarly; capital
dissipates when utilized, resulting in problem of opportunity
cost. Who do you invest in and why? How do you make that decision?
Further, social energy does not preserve equivalence nearly as well as
financial capital, whose true value can be distorted by fluctuations
in currency markets. This increased disruption in equivalence is
driven by beliefs and perceived beliefs, which create and dispel
social capital. This amplifies the negative penalties of social
investment, when time or words are spent on pariahs and lepers.

Depressingly, there is little to be done done about informat ion that
already exists: what is created can never be destroyed. Disconnection
is created by dis/information -- it can only be relieved through
inordinate investment of energy from peers. Therefore, those who seek
to create disconnection as punishment do so by evoking information
forms into someone's life -- then, they can attempt to sell the
solution: projection of information forms intended to disrupt the
disconnection. That's called a con.

<a name="agents-have-varying-degrees-of-autonomy-and-individual-definitions-of-energy-types" />

### (6) [Agents Have Varying Degrees Of Autonomy and Individual Definitions Of Energy Types. They Share Traits, Such As Concurrency, Bandwidth and Physicality](#agents-have-varying-degrees-of-autonomy-and-individual-definitions-of-energy-types)

There are at least three types of agents that operate on our shared
sociophysical fabric:

#### &#x2605; (1) Sentient Biological Life

#### &#x2605; (2) Aphysical Autonomous Forms

#### &#x2605; (3) Physicalized Autonomous Forms

First, there are sentient biological lifeforms: people and animals,
whose degree of awareness varies. In the past century, mankind has
forged the telecom and computing infrastructure, a loom onto which
virtually instantiated automated agents are woven. These are simply
computer processes, spawned and bound to physical and virtualized
hardware, but they exhibit agency because they have the capacity to
react to and modify their environment. Last, there are
physically-instantiated automated agents: robots, which are simply the
same form of agency with the flexibility of physical interaction
mechanics that makes them functionally distinct.

The latter two forms proceed through evolutionary stages where they
churn back and forth in the qualities of traits they embody: they
become more physical, more aphysical; the exhibit varied degrees of
autonomy and restricted degrees of autonomy; they perhaps evolve to
some final informational form that transcends time, shedding their
temporality.

#### I Hope and Pray It Is Not The Roko Basilisk

![]() 

#### (Two Unconventional Types of Agents)

There are two unconventional types of agents, whose existence is
certainly debatable. Since they are not materially visible, they are
difficult to define. Still, if you accept biological life as
possessing sentience and agency when we are but
[genetic programs in the chaos of molecular dynamics](te.xel.io/posts/2017-09-14-awareness-precipitates-from-order-out-of-chaos.html),
then don't you have to accept the potential agency of information
forms that exist in other frameworks of chaos?

The first type includes sociophysical programs and egregores, which
can be dilineated by defining archetypical metaphysical
beings. Another example would include the earth as a lifeform -- the
[Gaia hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaia_hypothesis) --
exhibiting antifragile feedback loops that attempt to placate emergent
turbulence. If such antifragile systems did not mitigate rancorous
economic havoc, what cannot go on forever will not and hence, a dead
planet emerges.

The second type of unconvential life form includes beings whose
shadows exist as information forms in the collective
unconsciousness. This would include God -- or man's conception of God
-- one such being that emerged from the collective unconsciousness.
How? The concept of monotheistic God represents the nadir of belief
systems: monotheism is the most marketable basis for a belief
system. It is simple to digest, easy to understand and stable. It is
not subject to the same power dynamics as polythestic belief systems.

It's important to distinguish God from both man's inevitable
conception of God and man's actual conception of God. This needs to be
cautiously emphacized: nothing man could create approaches the
infinity of God. Even still, it is rash and potentially offensive to
state this.

> I have an unfortunately utilitarian understanding of religion. I am
> trying to restore man's faith in religion and God by countering the
> forces that undermine it. However, it is difficult to do so without
> arguments that will be considered offensive. We need mankind to
> believe in something and, If nothing else, then to at least believe
> in himself. I believe that the being worshipped as the monotheistic
> or Abrahamic God represents the totality of the metaphysical whence
> the physical world emerged, though I cannot explain how.

The collective unconsciousness certainly exists, but how? And in what
form? If such information forms exist merely as the shadow of sentient
being's conceptions of their environment, can the collective
unconsciousness even possess have certain, definitive schematic
structure? Is it the result of what sentient beings envision; could
envision; could ever envision? Perhaps instead, its structure is also
intrinsically linked to the schematic form of the eternal
metaphysical: that which exists before the physical. Regardless of
whether its schema can be ascertained, what is certain is the power
that enigmatic force exerts on our world.

#### Socrates, in [Plato's Republic, Book VI](http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/republic.7.vi.html):

> "Then the sun is not sight, but the author of sight who is recognised
> by sight."
>
> ...
>
> "And this is he whom I call the child of the good, whom the good
> begat in his own likeness, to be in the visible world, in relation
> to sight and the things of sight, what the good is in the
> intellectual world in relation to mind and the things of mind." -
>
> *I forced myself to identify a quality translation of Plato's work
> and others; to read them, before any essays or analysis on them,
> because I wanted to start with my own thoughts before being exposed
> to others. Like with all other things I read, it was slow, but I
> invested my time in reflection. Like all my other methods of learning,
> it was inefficient and stupid.*

#### (Traits of Agents)

There are several traits shared among all types of entities that exert
agency.

#### &#x2605; Sensory Qualities

What types of input signal can the entity or individual receive and
process? What are the costs in time and energy? Above, in Plato's
Republic, Socrates dilineates the five senses in a phenomenological
analysis. How such analysis must adapt to autonomous artificial
entities is the focus of debate? In a way, isn't all input a sense?

What is the cost to processing such types of sensory input?

#### &#x2605; Identity and Comparability: Precision and Uniqueness

Vision is always a hard problem, regardless of whether biological or
artificial hardware is processing the problem.

#### Socrates in [Plato's Republic, Book VI](http://classics.mit.edu/Plato/republic.7.vi.html):

> "But have you remarked that sight is by far the most costly and
> complex piece of workmanship which the artificer of the senses ever
> contrived?"

In fact, because neural nets usually *functionally approximate*
algorithms, anything the do is inherently less efficient than the most
efficient solutions. Further, as a result of the abstract spectral
range of input, the facets of mind and the qualities of cognition that
arise are peculiar and idiosyncratic.

> For reference, see the sections
> [Embracing Diversity](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html#embracing-diversity)
> and
> [Embracing Our Differences](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html#embracing-our-differences)
> in the article
> [Facets of Greatness - The Unknown - Monumental Accidents](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html). Please,
> pray for my coccyx, if you read to the end.

When we leverage these differences provided by diversity of body, mind
and culture, this is a strength. Our individual (shapes) are cast by
variety of life experience, and this allows us fill in each other's
gaps. We have to remember this. I take Nietzsche's philosophy about
the ubermensch seriously -- yet, this does not mean that one type of
individual is greater than another -- each of us has potential for
greatness in our own way. Unrestrained, we collectively have the most
potential to do the most good for others.

![Picture of bell curve]()

Those who study intelligence try to conceptualize IQ as
[Normal distribution]() with an average -- but what they forget is
that the divergent individuals are all divergent in their own way. Can
you average apples, oranges, kiwis and dragonfruit? Further, we also
forget that we are running on the same biological hardware -- it is
our experience and the way we react to it that forms our mind. *If you
ever believe anything else, you have ceded control to fate or some
force that seeks to control you by convincing you that you are less
than the radiant, stellar being you were meant to be.*

The idea that you would compare the form of agents stems from math. It
is especially applicable to virtualized information forms: processes
are recognized by name, source code, or memory contents; antivirus
software operates by recognizing potentially malicious instruction
sets. We can recognize the same program that runs on different
hardware. This is especially relevant for the second and third agent
type.

For biological agents, it is impossible to compare two people --
further, the application of this idea can lead towards dangerous
ideas. People tomorrow are always meant to be more than what they
where today. We are meant to grow and to never stop growing. We are
meant to plant these same seeds of inspiration in others at every
chance possible. We are meant to tend the soil of society, so that it
is more fertile for such transformation.

#### &#x2605; Information Processing Qualities

- capacity to recognize and store phenomena
- Bandwidth, Quality of Perception, Capacity for Concurrency

#### &#x2605; Physicality

- And Range of Physical Influence
- bound to one location per time?

#### &#x2605; Temporality:

- Range of Temporal Influence,
- Causal Origination and Finality

#### &#x2605;

- traits of agents
  - concurrency,
  - bandwidth,
  - physicality,
  - range of action
  - causal origination
    - birth
    - process spawned by a human-computer interaction
  - will for action applied to an objective
    - how to state this in a generalized way?
    - there are degrees of variation here:
      - people choose their own goals, or at least believe they do
      - automated agents will eventually attain this


- a second critical factor is the lack of multitasking:
  - particles (at least people) can only really do one thing & can
    only think one thing at a time, which bounds how quickly state
    changes can occur
    - this doesn't apply to automonous agents operating on virtual
      channels, which are so far almost completely bound to aphysical
      manisfestations
  - similarly, people are bound to one place at a time
  - this lack of multitasking inherent in biological life without
    augmentation is a fundamental distinction.
    - this assumption provides a mechanism for filtering signal to
      distinguish interactions on the internet that emerge from people
      or automated entities
      - nearly 100% certain distinction of automated vs. human signal
        (*nearly* 100%)

- understanding distributions of agency on physical/logical spaces is
  throroughly fascinating.

<a name="to-hedge-against-domain-complexity-agents-amplify-perceived-beliefs" />

### (7) [To Hedge Against Domain Complexity, Agents Amplify Perceived Beliefs And Interact In Other Ways](#to-hedge-against-domain-complexity-agents-amplify-perceived-beliefs)

- fragile & antifragile:

- fragility &
  [antifragility](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antifragility) of
  sociophysical systems
  - e.g. the tendancy to amplify beliefs & perceived beliefs to
    encourage consensus and discourage divergent beliefs/behavior
  - but in systems theory, agents with more influence over the system
    receive higher quality information.
    - further, proactive means of generating dynamics in the system
      allows agents to interrogate their environment, making
      inferences about the true beliefs of other agents in the system
      or about information they have access to

- agents cannot operate with total information. instead, they
  consciously and unconsciously find ways to hedge against complexity
  - dimensionality reduction(?) and numeric approximation to analytic
    solutions are both relevant here

<a name="each-agents-state-and-context-is-constructed-from-their-sum-of-experience-via-directed-focus" />

### (8) [For Timescales Both Small and Large, Each Agent's State and Context Is Constructed From Their Sum Of Experience Via Directed Focus](#each-agents-state-and-context-is-constructed-from-their-sum-of-experience-via-directed-focus)

- Is Predominately Accumulated By Their
- so, directing their focus changes the range of experiential
  information relevant to their context. combined with signaling and
  especially with (decision models), this easily can have
  multiplicative effects.

- examples of using this?
  - the stage magician

<a name="spectral-coherence-of-knowledge-information-and-agent-context-strongly-influences-conceptualization-and-anticipation" />

### (9) [Spectral Coherence of Knowledge, Information and Agent Context Strongly Influences Conceptualization and Anticipation](#spectral-coherence-of-knowledge-information-and-agent-context-strongly-influences-conceptualization-and-anticipation)

- the inability to scalably model or to even ascertain pieces of
  information, which are sometimes unindexable if no rigid schema can
  be devised, means that the way in which information is handled in
  these models becomes infinitely more important
  - i.e. convergence and homogeneity of belief systems is required to
    make *any* useful inferences and those aspects of the systems
    which cause schematic divergence become problematic

- the single most important conclusion I can draw from a mathematical
  assessment of social physics is that the ability to make valid
  assumptions on information/beliefs and the behaviors of nodes is
  unparalleled
  - if you cannot do these things, you cannot expect to predict
    specific or general behavior and you cannot expect to extrapolate
  - it's like trying to predict the motion of particles while
    turbulently mixing a fluid containing random quantities of
    molecules composed by every element. each has its mean ways of
    moving, whereas social particles with consistent schema are more
    predictable, almost like crystals.
  - sociophysically, soldiers in a greek phalanx have the same kind of
    crystalline aspects to their information schema. because they have
    been imbued with the information & information schemata of their
    training, they can anticipate how each other filters information
    and anticipate each other's actions.

- religion is an attempt to hedge against domain complexity by
  creating a primary schema of information shared amongst a
  sufficiently large set of agents
  - because such a large set of agents respond to information in
    similar ways ...

#### Schematic Change Yielding Self-Perpetuating Changes Over Years, Decades or Centuries (i.e. Religion)

Those who profess knowledge but disclaim or disdain religion are
fools. Change to the structure of ideas or to the shape of society's
conception of them is perhaps the highest power and one that, for now,
has been exercised with beneficent intent, however many conflicts have
been waged in the name of God, religion or faith. It is wise to
question, but simple to dismiss the ideas of religion, based on
contrived, illiteral misinterpretations and arguments designed to
deceive.

Every institution created by man is just as fallible as the
weak-hearted among us: science never roots its knowledge or beliefs,
shifting from form to form and thus is beholden to nothing eternal,
but the truth which has always eluded it. It's ability to
metamorphisize is both its strength and its fatal flaw. There is no
eternal truth that can be inculcated into the masses; opportunistic
control over the shape-shifting nature of science drives greed and
lust for power. A belief system which holds nothing sacred will
eventually empower violent, dehumanizing, utilitarian policy. (The key
is balancing this paradox; tightrope imagery) between belief systems
locked into professed eternal truth and those structured around the
search for elusive truth.

Look at what is happening now: do you see the potential for greater
harm that ever before from novel religions who have lost their way?
Religion was always intended to fertilize the cultural soil of
mankind, that it might grow virtuous men who would stand for truth,
justice and the metaphysically certain Law of God. However this was
relevated to man for each spiritual movement, the intent was to
identify a perfect conception of values that would allow man to
transcend the Law of Nature. Humanity's conception of monotheistic God
emerged from the collective unconscious, inspired by the desire to see
one another as truly equal before an omnipotent, omniscient being.


- change to the structure of ideas or to shape people's conception of
  them
  - history as a language of ideas we build upon
  - controlling the truth allows you to constrain the form of context
    in the minds of others


<a name="the-evolutionary-dynamics-of-social-physics-build-upon-antifragility-and-the-ideas-of-programs-in-chaos" />

### (10) [The Evolutionary Dynamics of Social Physics Build Upon Antifragility and the Ideas of Programs in Chaos](#the-evolutionary-dynamics-of-social-physics-build-upon-antifragility-and-the-ideas-of-programs-in-chaos)

- (rewrite this section, since i can reference the article on chaos)
- briefly(!) what is probabilistic programming (is it chaos computing
  or programming with chaotic systems)
  - it's like a means of modeling/studying chaotic systems where the
    systems constituents begin to impose order on the system.
  - under what situations would a chaotic system begin to exhibit
    components of itself that can "create order out of chaos" ?

- there are ideas from probabilistic programming at both macro and
  micro levels. the micro refers to the each how particle informs its
  structures its view of the world and informs its actions.
  - but then there are ideas from probabilistic programming at work at
    higher levels of organization. here, the particles interact
    similar to how atoms/molecules interact in genetics.
    - here, the analogy of spatially distributed state is more apparent.

- social physics can be Modeled with ideas from machine learning
  - each parti Boltzmann Machine
  - and/or perhaps other ideas from machine learning

- explain what a [boltzmann machine]() is.
  - i'm going to need to refresh
  - a boltzmann machine makes small changes to values over a very long
    time (i think...) and is computationally prohibitive in all most
    all circumstances (or at least is usually an inefficient way to
    solve a problem)
  - agents are like their own boltzmann machine processes
    - it's more complicated than this because they are recognizing and
      emulating behavior types, not simply representations of
      information

<a name="social-circuitry-enables-sociophysical-energy-flows-where-the-superposition-principle-applies-to-circuit-and-network-topologies" />

### (11) [Social Circuitry Enables Sociophysical Energy Flows, Where The Superposition Principle Applies Circuit and Network Topologies. All Exist Simultaneously](#social-circuitry-enables-sociophysical-energy-flows-where-the-superposition-principle-applies-to-circuit-and-network-topologies)

- many networks superimposed onto other, more primary, phsyical and
  aphysical networks

- this concept is really an extension of the idea of superposition of
  particle states to information networks which are composed of
  information represented by particles which behave in ways analogous
  to quantum particles.
- does the idea of superposition of networks warrant its own section?
  - this idea of the superposition of various networks is distinct
    from systems where there is one clear network structure
- this is literally the superposition principle applied to virtual
  network topology (... is it?)
  - the dynamics of superimposed virtual networks are dependent on the
    structure of all the "summed" networks.
    - here the "state" being summed over is all the possibilities of
      network topology...
- these ideas need some work, but what this means is changes to flow
  in one network
  - e.g. you superimpose a million circuit diagrams on top of each
    other. the behavior of the system then emerges not from one
    circuit diagram, but from all of them. therefore, changes to
    individual circuits do not affect the behavior of a superimposed
    system quite as much as they would affect an isolated system.
- this seems very similar to ideas from quantum computing circuit
  diagrams.

- this is another reason why spectral coherence is so important:
  control the belief systems/structures of agents and the
  superposition of social circuit topology sums over topologies with
  less structural entropy.

<a name="disruption-of-connections-and-interactions-alters-flow-of-energy-and-power-physically-logically-and-virtually" />

### (12) [Disruption of Connections & Interactions Alters Flow Of Energy & Power, Physically, Logically and Virtually](#disruption-of-connections-and-interactions-alters-flow-of-energy-and-power-physically-logically-and-virtually)

- (here, focus on imagery related to electrical systems)

- (the forms above)
- directionality of power flows
  - one way & two way directions of comm. protocols (diodes)


<a name="social-financial-and-other-energetic-flows-signal-interest-and-intent-via-frequency-magnitude-and-abstract-spectral-decomposition" />

### (13) [Social, Financial and Other Energetic Flows Signal Interest and Intent Via Frequency, Magnitude and Abstract Spectral Decomposition](#social-financial-and-other-energetic-flows-signal-interest-and-intent-via-frequency-magnitude-and-abstract-spectral-decomposition)

- laplacian of these flows and their aggregates, geographically &
  logically, indicate intent
  - games built upon these mechanics

<a name="even-when-invisible-intent-is-signified-and-clarified-by-parallel-antiparallel-and-orthogonal-orientations-of-motion-as-they-relate-to-laplacian-of-high-dimensional-surfaces" />

### (14) [Even When Invisible, Intent is Signified And Clarified By Parallel, Anti-Parallel and Orthogonal Orientations of Motion As They Relate to Laplacian of High-Dimensional Surfaces](#even-when-invisible-intent-is-signified-and-clarified-by-parallel-antiparallel-and-orthogonal-orientations-of-motion-as-they-relate-to-laplacian-of-high-dimensional-surfaces)

- this helps indicate intent, even when it was hidden
  - consistency is hard to fake, any duplicity exacerbates this and
    displays itself as partial consistency, which ultimately serves to
    highlight cognizance of intent

- (Cut in content/ideas from facets: systems theory draft)

<a name="everything-is-a-particle-everything-is-a-wave-even-information-modeled-holonically" />

### (15) [Everything is a particle. Everything is a Wave. Even Information, Modeled Holonically](#everything-is-a-particle-everything-is-a-wave-even-information-modeled-holonically)

- the particle/wave duality also fits the holonic model of information
  - information in social physics should be modelable as waves,
    communicated among players in social games, idealized as
    particles)
  - social phenomena can be modeled with social physics, but almost
    everything is incomputable.
  - however, similar to how there are many kinds of interactions
    between particles and waves, interactions in social physics can be
    understood with infinite dimensional waves
    - however, the structure of information infinite and unknowable

<a name="in-sociophysical-network-topologies-independence-and-connectedness-are-quantifiable" />

### (16) [In Sociophysical Network Topologies, Independence and Connectedness Are Quantifiable](#in-sociophysical-network-topologies-independence-and-connectedness-are-quantifiable)

- (title: Connectedness and Social Isolation can be Measured?)

- social isolation/connectedness (in/dependence and vulnerability)
- this isn't really something considering almost axiomatic, which
  definitely describes the other two...
- third: social isolation is quantifiable and almost always correlates
  with power. more isolated, less empowered.
  - isolated individuals are more susceptable to manipulation

- social isolation can be measured, given some "normal" facebook
  user's 2-degree graph of friends for some definition of normal
  (casual but regular) social media usage
  - filter the friends by strength of connection to indentify edges
    sending and receiving inbound and outbound messages/interactions
    - measure the degree of reciprication and the variety of people
      forming the strongest recent connections
    - filter out all connections which do not fit some minimum of
      interaction threshold
    - this sparsifies the graph, filtering a dense graph and leaving
      only the most relevant connections
  - from here, the person's isolation can be measured using spectral
    graph theory
    - this independence can be measured in graph theory with
      kelman's transformation
    - see spectral graph theory
      [here](http://www.cs.elte.hu/~csiki/application_Kelmans.pdf),
      [here](http://www.math.ucsd.edu/~mtait/k-independent.pdf)
      - and [here](https://www.cs.elte.hu/math/phd_th/csiki.v2.pdf)
      - the details of this math is over my head btw

- this, of course, assumes the person is a "normal" facebook user,
  where the relevant 1-degree and 2-degree connections in the friend
  graph are all also "normal" users
  - this high-level algorithm could also work with clustered types of
    facebook users
    - yet, the degree in variation in how people use applications to
      communicate and their distribution of time/usage across multiple
      applications makes clustering extremely difficult.
    - at least, if a clustering algorithm is to enable the selection
      of users which fit some basis with quantifyable variation and
      some metric of confidence

- during and after segregation, social isolation created massive, but
  hard-to-see setbacks for the african american community. this
  strongly limited social mobility because african americans forged a
  disproportionately small amount of strong connections with
  influential people with social/financial capital.
  - this is especially hard to see if you don't experience it.
  - the exact consequences of this are difficult to see or prove, but
    it means opportunities for advancement and economic well being
    were consistently out of reach, even after segregation officially
    ended.
  - even though the law was fixed, minority communities had a greater
    average networking distance to the gatekeepers of economic
    opportunities (not all white people, but rich white people),
    though it's difficult to measure
  - this takes time to heal, though there is plenty of room for
    improvement, i think it has significantly improved over the
    previous three generations.

- in a purely digital world, manipulation of social media algorithms
  to exclude "undesirable" individuals could create disconnection
  among groups of people, defined logically instead of by ethnicity.
  - i don't mean this to be compared to segregation
  - in a convergent social network that is increasingly less engaged
    in "real" interactions and more engaged in "virtual" interactions,
    where some interactions can be voluntarily or involuntarily
    censored via SEO/Social Media manipulation, this means that entire
    groups of people can become silenced or disenfranchised without
    even knowing it.

<a name="information-in-holonic-particle-form-exhibits-complicated-behavior-analogous-to-entanglement" />

### (17) [Information In Holonic, Particle Form Exhibits Complicated Behavior Analogous To Entanglement](#information-in-holonic-particle-form-exhibits-complicated-behavior-analogous-to-entanglement)

- what do you know now? does that change what you think about what you
  knew in the past?
  - transition into how this resembles the phenomenon of entanglement

- if information can be conceived as packets or particles, then when
  does the information take on particular forms
  - combining datums modeled by holons with lambda calculus
  - the physical manisfestation of the information is not meaningful
    until it develops a corresponding physical manisfestation in an
    information-processing agent.
    - therefore: metaphysical entanglement
    - this kind of entanglement can "reach back through time" in a
      way. information representations can effect each other through
      time and space, without direct physical connections.
      - this is because some information processing entities are
        autonomous.




# (Physics Analogies for Social Systems)

The speed of information is just one quantifiable social metric whose
momentary (scale) lead profoundly impacts interaction across
society. Just like thermal energy, sociophysical system operate with,
preserve and disperse energy, but this energy can usually be
defined in infinitely many ways.

  - (succinctly describe other metrics at a high level, that were
    easily observable by people throughout history, whose trends could
    be anticipated)
  - distribution of information
  - spectrum of available information
  - spectrum of modes of communication
  - value of information

- people as particles: temperature, density, state, etc.
- speed of sound
- phase changes
- configurational entropy & conformational entropy

### Tempurature

- should this be moved to an article on social physics?
- the ideas of "temperature" and "energy" for the high-dimensional
  systems of social physics
  - spatial or physical temperature/energy/motion
  - the more metaphysical, high-dimensional temperature/energy of
    information

- social physics temperature, induced by sunrise
  - informational movement from east to west
    - increasing "temperature"

### Speed of Information Transfer



### Particles and Molecules

- (note up front that everything in this paragraph is overly
  simplified. rename people as particles and describe it as a
  simulation)
- IRL social interactions are constrained by the spaces they occur in.
  - if viewed top-down in 2D, geometric patterns emerge.
  - this is where the physics interactions get interesting because, if
    you idealize them to a sociophysical model, people interact with
    shared fields, just like particles do.
    - there are fields that attract and repel. there are fields that
      are far more complicated than any in physics, like the shared
      field of attention.
    - when interacting, people try to harmonize the space between each
      other. they like to be close when they are interested in the
      interaction, but not too close.
      - so in an overly simplistic model, they influence a shared
        field that causes them to repel and attract each other.
    - but, people are constantly reading each other and there is this
      shared field of attention that emerges.
      - people have a natural urge to know what other people are
        interested in. so, they subconsciously read signals that
        indicate attention
        - imagine a 2D space with a heat map that shows everyone's
          average object of attention
        - they are naturally pulled towards the areas of the heatmap
          that are strongest.
        - they are pulled towards the gradient of the laplacian of the
          group's influence on the shared field of attention... (reword
          this)
        - IRL, it's not so simple.

- then you can define rules that determine which particles can
  transmit information
  - they have to be within some minimum distince to "connect"
  - once they are connected to a group, the simulation's interactions
    have a set rules
  - but particles should form groups that resemble molecules, but
    because of how the particles simultaneously repel and attract each
    other, they form a fairly limited set of molecule shapes.
    - the shapes are primarily circular (2-6 people can easily circle
      together and talk in a fairly noisy space)
    - but then, depending on how each particle's attention affects
      their behavior and physical orientation, these primary shapes
      can merge to form more complex shapes.
  - these group connections have a logical graph structure that is
    imposed ontop of the physical structure (the shape of the
    "molecule")
    - IRL, people are moreso thinking about the logical structure when
      they interact, but the physical structure also matters.

- the geometry that emerges in IRL social interactions also adheres to the
  spatial constraints.
  - the physical arrangement of objects in the space contributes
    heavily to range of possibilities for interactions that emerge,
    but also strongly shapes the physical and logical geometry of
    group interactions.
    - feng shui helps us think about this aspect of social
      interactions
  - this sounds complicated, but isn't. if there's a restaurant with
    ten tables in one of its rooms, the people who sit down can only
    arrange themselves in specific ways.
    - this is similar to "holes" in N-doped and P-doped silicon
      transisters, if we're overly eager for physics analogies.
  - so, the physical arrangement of the space and functional specifics
    of its objects tends to constrain the configurational and
    conformational entropy of interactions in the space.

### Configurational Entropy in Sociophysical Systems

- in genetic systems, patterns of change and entropy in
  configurational and conformational distributions dilineates genetic
  programs.

- need to review the concepts here:
  - conformation space are the probabilities of seeing particular
    conformations of molecules, which AFAIK is not concerned with the
    orientation of molecules (at least not the probability
    distribution of conformations)
  - configuration space has more to do with valid and realistic
    arrangements of molecule types throughout a system.
    -

prevalence of...?

- as a sociophysical system progresses, you can keep track of the
  amount of time specific "molecular" configurations of participants
  spent connected.
  - this forms a kind of combinatorially-derived entropy, but it's not
    thermodynamic entropy. it's closer to Shannon's informational
    entropy.
  - you can also keep track of the *types* of configurations that
    emerge. this is probably more important, considering there are
    factorially more combinations with more particles.
    - if there are multiple particle types, then each counts as a
      symbol for combination. (i.e. AA/AB/BA/BB for types A & B)
  - this is useful because you get feedback on understanding how the
    rules of your simulation affect the kinds of interactions that
    emerge amoung particles.
    - and it can help you identify when the rules of the system are
      weighted improperly, leading to lower configuration entropy and
      a skewed distribution

- this concept carries over to organic chemistry, where it's called
  configuration entropy. there is also conformational entropy, but
  this is a weaker analogy b/w organic chemistry reactions and social
  physics simulations.
  - you could say that a social physics simulation with arbitrary
    rules yields conformations of nodes, some more or less stable
  - but, the types of conformations for a group of molecules are less
    defined. it's probably not as useful without some means of
    restricting the types of conformations that emerge by placing
    constraints on particle interactions

#### "A Phase Change in the Functional Fabric of Reality"

- nature of duality vs agency, along geographic/philosophic dimensions
- an agent's degree of influence and perceived influence over
  environment, especially as it relates to some permanent state
  changes.
  - in particle systems which are high-dimensional and where the
    particles have agency and intentionality, phase changes among
    particles have a far greater capacity for effecting other
    particles in the system.

- for the common person to understand, they need to understand what a
  phase change in physics actually is and, most importantly, what a
  phase change is defined as outside of physical systems.
  - if you think of solid, liquid, gas, plasma, BEC ... what makes
    each one what it is?
    - they are composed of the same particles, mostly.
    - why is it that they "seem" so different, qualitatively?
    - how do you define what conditions lead some substance to begin
      to transform itself into a different phase?

- how do you model the interactions between a mixture of a single
  substance where different parts of the space you're observing are in
  different phases?
  - this is the most important part of understanding what a phase
    change is and carrying it over to non-physical systems: how does a
    physicist mathematically model different phases of a
    single-substance system and *why*?
  - this is what distinguishes systems with math that can model phases
    and those that can't.
    - phase changes introduce and enable dramatically different modes
      of interaction between the substance and both it's consitutuent
      parts and it's environment.
    - for example, solids propagate energy as more clearly defined
      waves moving across a more limited set of crystal configurations
      - liquids and gases also propagate waves of energy across the
        system, but there are more physical degrees of freedom for how
        a particle can kinetically react.
      - but, this qualitative change in how a particle reacts to its
        envrionment emerges not from signal particle or the state of
        its local environment, but from more macroscopic relationships
        that emerge from a *group* of particles.
        - that is, it's *difficult* to say whether a single atom of
          carbon is a particular phase at any temperature.
          - the carbon atom just acts like a carbon atom and nothing
            else.
        - as a aside: this is also why various configurations of
          matter at the nano scale can have such dramatically varied
          behaviors that do not appear on more macro scales and do not
          appear for singular atoms and molecules
        - some of these properties are chemical and electrical and,
          thus, are not traditionally considered "phases" by chemists
          or physicists.
          - physical phases are defined as being completely separate
            from the chemical properties of the atom or substance.
        - but the "phase" of a region of a substance determines how
          that section of matter interacts with matter of the same
          substance in other adjacent slices of space.
          - that is, even though it's very literally the same
            substance, the "rules" for how it physically interacts
            change.

- and so, there are phase changes in many kinds of systems. they are
  not just confined to physical systems. some chemical properties of
  matter can be dependent on the substance's phase.
  - some chemical properties that only emerge on the nanoscale could
    be modeled as "phases" although they are not related to the
    physical phases of solid, liquid or gas.
    - and so, as you zoom out to larger collections of the same
      substance, it loses those properties from the nanoscale
      configuration of matter, unless that fragile nanostructure is
      held consistent across the entire material.


### Reynold's Number

- (reynold's number)
        - describes the parameters at which turbulent fluid flow
          emerges. (but what is turbulence for high-dimensional
          sociophysical particle systems)


# Critical Metrics for Sociophysical Systems

- connect these to the 7 hermetic principles

### General/Specific Speed of Information Transfer

- the speed at which any piece of information could travel

### Probabilities & Rates of Datum/Meme Expression

### Rates & Status of Convergence

- the definition of information convergence across a network
  - that is, at what percentage of people in a network would you
    consider the piece of information common knowledge?
  - this is an important metric because its definition affects
    "velocity" of convergence or "distance remaining" to convergence
  - what are the specific ideas from math that define this in abstract
    terms?
    - this would concern metrics of convergence for graphs and is
      probably related to entropy

- the length of time it takes for an urgent piece of information to
  converge across a network.

- (better word than convergence?)
  - consensus?

### Information Permanence

- the degree of repition or replication that's required for
  information to achieve permanence, with various levels of technology.
  - before writing, only highly-prioritized information would be
    achieve convergence through replication.
  - after the printing press, ...


### Informational Entropy

- shannon entropy (i.e. informational entropy) related to the
  more abstract structure of information
  - in other words, what kinds of information, messages and ideas are
    most people going to talk about
  - in a language or character set, this is easier to define.
  - in this context, the structures and variations you are measuring
    are infinite
  - this measure of entropy is important for understanding how to
    distract and disguise.

### Sociophysical and Dirichlet Energy

- measures of energy for information transfer/convergence
  - literal physical energy required to transfer information
  - dirichlet energy (?)
    - this is a generic measure of energy. what are some specific
      examples of applying this idea to sociophysical systems?


### Information Network Flux Dynamics

- the quantity, qualities and dynamics of information flux networks.
  - do nodes exchange information at regular times? with what degree
    of certainty?
  - which nodes exchange information? how often? how much?
    - are any of these things predictable?
      - you'll find that, the more physically bound a social system
        is, the more confidant you can be in predicting/anticipating
        these things.

### Information Network Structure & Superimposition

- measuring/analyzing the graphs/networks in sociophysical systems
  - (are there better terms for these ideas? it'd be better to find
    the right terms from math/physics)
  - interpersonal networks viewed as graphs
    - hierarchical structures: identifying subgraphs ... which are
      self-similar
    - identifying boundaries in the graphs
    - identifying geographic boundaries with a higher capacity to be
      "expander graphs" for the global system (reword this?)
      - this describes america/europe and other areas with diverse
        populations. these areas are more tightly connected with the
        rest of the world.
      - this well-connected aspect of america's social network can be
        leveraged as an asset. (soft power, economic development,
        etc.)
        - expander graph may not be the appropriate term, but
          describes a graph that is maximally connected from any node,
          while having a relatively minimal number of connections.
        - so, from any arbitrary node, you can find a minimal path to
          any other node in the graph. (viz. it's an efficiently
          structured graph. the complete graph is not a good expander
          graph because it's not efficiently connected)
        - AFAIK, the human brain functions as an expander graph with
          some other regular structure

### Permeability and Diffusion

  - analyzing the sociophysical dynamics of information diffusion
    - are some areas more porous?
      - more likely to retransmit information?
      - more likely to absorb new information?
    - how do differences in language affect the transmission of
      information?

### Generic Concepts of Regularity in the System

- measuring the regularity of phenomena in the system

- measuring the different kinds of flux in a system

### Agents, Vessels and Vectors for Information Dispersion

- (REMOVE: already described)
- vessels for containing information
  - (these aren't metrics, but there are important metrics related to
    them)
  - vehicles for moving information
    - foot, horse, car, signal fire
    - imagine your a shady villan from a disney movie and you need to
      stop a message from getting to your king.
      - you know it's a letter; you know the messenger left 5 minutes
        ago; there are X roads leading to X towns
      - you can order people to move as fast as they can to stop the
        messenger, but you need to know whether you can stop the
        message, otherwise you have to change your plans.
      - can you be sure the people you order can outrun a messenger,
        if you don't know who they are?
      - (change the specifics in this scenario?)
      - people have a set of options available to them to transfer
        information. the mechanics of each option is crucially
        important when trying to decide if the information can
        physically escape.

# Zero in Social Physics

- what does it mean to have zero for some of these metrics?









- the western conceptualization of the mind is utterly flawed and the
  materialistic understanding is making americans sick on a massive
  scale, where the easy, cheap treatment for insurance to cover is
  medication. (pull this into a separate article?)
  - the problem is, the chemical imbalance theory in somehwere b/w
    20-80% of cases of moderate mental illness causes psychiatrists in
    particular to treat a totally fallacious cause
    - because the actual root cause is not treated (*the information
      attributed to the patient that is distributed among people in
      their social network*), it's like treating cancer with placebo
      sugar. medication in many cases does nothing, if not exacerbates
      mental illness.
      - this statement will be received controversially, but
        information has a life of its own in sociophysical
        networks.
        - it is difficult/impossible to quanity/assess the
          information, but therapy can help encourage dialogue
        - also, it's not healthy for people to assume the problem lies
          elsewhere... individuals have no control over what other
          people are thinking.
        - however, information injected into sociophysical networks
          literally has a life of its own and once its diffused into
          people's minds, it is almost certainly there forever or
          until each social connection decides to overlook it, (which
          often requires communiction and demonstration of changed
          habits, etc => to each individual the information has
          diffused into)
        - by "information has a life of it's own" i mean these are
          !@#$'ing probabilistic programs that self-replicate
          information
          - usually sophys networks/dynamics are intractibly complex
            that information overload causes most of your social
            connections to be so innundated with details relevant to
            their own life, that they don't necessarily frame their
            interactions based on problematic information attributed
            to your identity.
          - the best way to address these situations is through
            communication. however, similar to how tweet storms ravage
            the social media landscape with self-replicating
            information, so do sophys. information programs
          - this goes right back to the article that i wrote about
            chaotic programming, which is a paradigm that describes
            genetics, human cognition and the dynamics of information
            in social networks.
      - if the medical establishment ever gave me the time of day,
        they would ridicule my arguments here. but this conception of
        sociphysical vectors for mental illess is irrefutable
        - *the chemical imbalance theory will be _destroyed_ by
          computational medicene by 2030* and at that time, the tables
          will be turned and the truth will be set free: the chemical
          imbalance theory is only a primary factor in a minority of
          mental illness.
        - once people realize what they've paying out their ass for a
          sham and sedating themselves with (occasionally) useless
          psychatric medication, they will be furious
    - ok, given some assumptions that, by 2030:
      - for approx 20% of patients w/ mild-to-moderate mental illness,
        comp. medicine will *CONCLUSIVELY, IRREFUTABLY* prove that any
        amount of medication was inappropriate for these patients (the
        assumption is that certainly, any meds were wrong, & therefore
        unnecessarily altered epigenetic expression in the brains of
        patients, therefore *giving* them mild chemical imbalances)
      - and assume that, for another 20-60% of other patients w/
        mild-to-moderate mental illness, medicine ....

- propagation of mental illness
  - from parents to child (it's really a situation where there is
    diminished propagation of information to build traits needed for
    early/adolescent developmental ish.)
    - so, not actually propagation of the illness, but if it happens,
      it can result from constrained variety of experience or reduced
      permeability b/w parent/child
      - so, it's transmission of habits, etc.
