---
title: "Fatal Flaws of Antifragile System Design Patterns"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology philosophy social-physics"
headline: "Free @dcunit3d"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
There are two things we should fear above all else: nihilism and
ourselves. Antifragile design principles are excellent for solving the
latter problem, but make no advances in protecting us the first.  The
ultimate systemic flaw of antifragile systems is that they rely on
instilling a sense of purpose among the nodes carrying out action to
protect order in system from the chaos of itself. Only some branches
of hierarchy need to be motivated by stressing or feeding their
incentivization methods to be convinced to act against any other part
of the system. Therefore: demoralization can totally undermine
antifragile systems, if it is systemic. In upcoming decades,
demoralization resulting from loss of connection to loss of prosperity
or from the loss of both our humanity and our individuality will lead
to massive breakdown of our sociopolitical systems of control."
---

## [Sociophysical Miasma and Iatragenic Interventions](#sociophysical-miasma-and-iatrogenic-interventions)

#### &#x2605; [Reality Distortion Fields May Artificially Amplify Misinformation and Disinformation](#reality-distortion-fields-may-artificially-amplify-misinformation-and-disinformation)

#### &#x2605; [Vulnerabilities Inherent in Antifragile Design Patterns](#vulnerabilities-inherent-in-antifragile-design-patterns)

#### &#x2605; [Lower Sociohierarchical Branches Only Know How, Not What and Never Why](#lower-sociohierarchical-branches-only-know-how-not-what-and-never-why)

#### &#x2605; [No Facts, Only Recorded Disinformation? Then There Is No Accountability](#no-facts-only-recorded-disinformation-then-there-is-no-accountability)

## [Antifragile System Design is Necessary to Save Our World, But...](#antifragile-system-design-is-necessary-to-save-our-world)

#### &#x2605; [Antifragile Thieves, Wolves or Shepherds?](#antifragile-thieves-wolves-or-sheperds)

#### &#x2605; [Do You Enjoy A Rigged Game?](#do-you-enjoy-a-rigged-game)

#### &#x2605; [The Presence of Virtue, Especially Magnanimity, Must Correlate To Social Mobility](#the-presence-of-virtue-especially-magnanimity-must-correlate-to-social-mobility)

#### &#x2605; [Sorry Communists, Evolutionary Mechanisms and Dynamics In Society Are Not Inherently Wrong](#sorry-communists-evolutionary-mechanisms-and-dynamics-in-society-are-not-inherently-wrong)

#### &#x2605; [The Kernel of Transvaluations](#the-kernel-of-transvaluations)

#### &#x2605; [Despite the Danger of Dangers, Authority MUST Be Grounded In Truth](#despite-the-danger-of-dangers-authority-must-be-grounded-in-truth)

#### &#x2605; [Just Like With Cosa Nostra, Your Sin Becomes Your Vice, Violating Intent of Moral Systems](#just-like-with-cosa-nostra-your-sin-becomes-your-vice-violating-intent-of-moral-systems)

## [Occupational Therapy: Iatrogenic Medical Treatment Should Never Be A Weapon of Antifragile System Control](#occupational-therapy-iatrogenic-medical-treatment-should-never-be-a-weapon-of-antifragile-system-control)

#### &#x2605; ["An Eye For An Eye Makes The Whole World Go Blind" - Ghandi](#an-eye-for-an-eye-makes-the-whole-world-go-blind)

#### &#x2605; [Stand Down, Bolsheviks, You Will Not Threaten Prosperity](#stand-down-bolsheviks-you-will-not-threaten-prosperity)

#### &#x2605; [Free @dcunit3d](#free-dcunit3d)

- intro/thesis statement
  - link in paper on "transport" processes
  - reference paper on antifragile communication (protection against
    jamming & protocol hijacking)

<a name="sociophysical-miasma-and-iatrogenic-interventions" />

# [Sociophysical Miasma and Iatragenic Interventions](#sociophysical-miasma-and-iatrogenic-interventions)

There is a tendency to mute any nodes that stand out as distinct or
different, dampening any signals they produce. If those signals were
not dampened, they could have indicated systemic problems that your
system could react to earlier. When, for national security, people are
surrounded with negative reality distortion fields -- which are
essentially toxic fields of sociophysical miasma where targets are
escorted by handlers nearly twenty-four seven -- the long-term
strategy is to isolate the target from the rest of the flock by
scaring them away. This is done by artificially amplifying false
information, whatever it is, regardless of its truth, without ever
giving the target a chance to react to the
[iatrogenic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iatrogenesis) interventions
-- see [here](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15847616),
[here](http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10683160600869809?journalCode=gpcl20)
and [here](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9230492). In order to
avoid being seen as the blatantly unethical tragedies they are,
research can be wrapped in particular language.

<a name="reality-distortion-fields-may-artificially-amplify-misinformation-and-disinformation" />

### [Reality Distorion Fields May Artificially Amplify Misinformation and Disinformation](#reality-distortion-fields-may-artificially-amplify-misinformation-and-disinformation)

However, encouraging the usage of these miasmic reality distortion
fields causes the artificial amplification of false information. The
people coordinating the targeting of these individuals begin to
underestimate them, are encouraged to hate them and encouraged to
rapidly spread this toxicity through our cities. Usually, the
intervention is successful in encouraging isolating behavior or the
development of personality disorders which push people away -- like a
superiority complex, an inferiority complex, a persecution complex,
etc. At this point, the target does the dirty work themselves and,
almost always, no one is the wiser because it is incredibly difficult
to see it for what it is.

<a name="vulnerabilities-inherent-in-antifragile-design-patterns" />

### [Vulnerabilities Inherent in Antifragile Design Patterns](#vulnerabilities-inherent-in-antifragile-design-patterns)

These kinds of problems are exacerbated when branches of the system
act in total secrecy -- especially when the lower branches of
hierarchy is shielded from most information. This is because there is
zero opportunity for dissent and the lower "hands" or "fingers"
leverage their own networks, which increasingly less operational
information. If the boots on the ground knew what they were doing and
why, that it could not be justified and that they were covering up the
mistakes of higher ups, simply to protect the ego's and empires of a
handful of powerful people, *they would never engage the target*. This
is why a target must act innocently and naively because only by
engaging the target, intending the infliction of harm, can the HUMINT
resources begin to question their actions.

<a name="lower-sociohierarchical-branches-only-know-how-not-what-and-never-why" />

### [Lower Sociohierarchical Branches Only Know How, Not What and Never Why](#lower-sociohierarchical-branches-only-know-how-not-what-and-never-why)

Further, the lower branches are privy to the how of operational
details, but not the why. This makes it difficult to react to novel
types of situations and harder for lower branches to react to black
swan events. Since they aren't allowed to understand all the details
for classying events and people, they tend to destroy everything they
can't comprehend that *might* be a threat. Further still, they can't
properly react to these situations and targets. They can also be lead
to act against themselves. It might be said that a society that
targets itself in this way is *always* attacking itself like sepsis or
some other kind of autoimmune disorder out of control.

Because everything is shrouded in secrecy, the system is autonomous &
self-perpetuating. It must be decentralized, so then, when these
people approach you with a "deal" they are lying -- they couldn't stop
this stuff if they wanted to because it's a chaotic sociophysical
program out of control. It's extortion and they plan on using you as
enforcement without pay. They react in a decentralized manner to
produce and amplify misinformation, but in the best case, that is
exactly what it is -- MISINFORMATION! In the worst case, they are
justifying their persecutory witchhunt based on disinformation.

<a name="no-facts-only-recorded-disinformation-then-there-is-no-accountability" />

### [No Facts, Only Recorded Disinformation? Then There Is No Accountability](#no-facts-only-recorded-disinformation-then-there-is-no-accountability)

Do you think the people recording a file on these targets write down
the facts? Do you think they would keep records that would cause their
own actions to appear unjust? No. And further, there are people
towards the higher levels of hierarchy who get paid or remunerated in
some non-financial way to perpetuate this. So: more targets? More
money, more benefits, more reward. The more sociohierarchical
territory they capture, the more influence they have. At this point,
one to three percent of our population with secret clearance or higher
is operating out of control for their own benefit, never giving
AMERICAN targets a chance to know what is going on. Because if they
stopped doing what leads them to being targeted, then how could the
vindictive players on team sociopathy keep using gain for their own
sustained gain?

<a name="antifragile-system-design-is-necessary-to-save-our-world" />

# [Antifragile System Design is Necessary to Save Our World, But...](#antifragile-system-design-is-necessary-to-save-our-world)

There are two things we should fear above all else: nihilism and
ourselves. Antifragile design principles are excellent for solving the
latter problem, but make no advances in protecting us the first.  The
ultimate systemic flaw of antifragile systems is that they rely on
instilling a sense of purpose among the nodes carrying out action to
protect order in system from the chaos of itself. Only some branches
of hierarchy need to be motivated by stressing or feeding their
incentivization methods to be convinced to act against any other part
of the system. Therefore: **demoralization** can totally undermine
antifragile systems, if it is systemic. In upcoming decades,
demoralization resulting from loss of connection to loss of prosperity
or from the loss of both our humanity and our individuality will lead
to massive breakdown of our sociopolitical systems of control.

<a name="antifragile-thieves-wolves-or-sheperds" />

### [Antifragile Thieves, Wolves or Shepherds?](#antifragile-thieves-wolves-or-sheperds)

It's easy to distinguish a wolf from a shepherd -- a sheperd does not
flee his flock in a time of need. A hireling shephered does not treat
the flock as though he is a sheep and his fate is one and the same as
the sheep in that flock. Just read
[John 10](https://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=John+10&version=KJV)
and look for the ones who walk right in, whose actions serve as their
language. Those are the shepherds. In this chapter, it clearly says
that Jesus is the door or the way.

Antifragile system design in sociocultural systems protects the herd
from emergent threats and humanity's collective capacity for turbulent
chaos, but it does nothing to protect us against nihilism, which is
our greatest threat. The need for antifragile systems' accelerant
reinforcement of stablity despite chaos helps mitigate unpredictable
scenarios, but it doesn't answer the question WHY? Why would people be
motivated towards acting against each other to blindly support a
system, if they believe the system does not serve them? Or if there is
loss of prosperity? Or if we totally undermine religion and other
belief systems that instill a sense of purpose in spite of the cold
depressing reality that life is what it is -- a hellish, purposeless,
nihilistic pit of despair where the worst of us climb on top at the
expense of those pious, virtuous souls.

<a name="do-you-enjoy-a-rigged-game" />

### [Do You Enjoy A Rigged Game?](#do-you-enjoy-a-rigged-game)

People don't mind playing games that they will lose, even if they know
they are probably going to lose, as long as they know the game is
fair. When you have a small segment of the population creating
technocracy architected with antifragile design principles for blind
mitigation threats and the unfamiliar -- then they rig the system with
surveillance, extortion, and psychological tactics to play the lower
rungs of society against each other -- how do you think people will
react to the sudden realization that the game is NOT fair? How do you
think people will react when they understand that the game does not
end well for the common person? When, regardless of whether we move to
the right or the left, a small segment of population assumes command
of everything and essentially the same technocratic, totalitarian
situation results.

<a name="the-presence-of-virtue-especially-magnanimity-must-correlate-to-social-mobility" />

### [The Presence of Virtue, Especially Magnanimity, Must Correlate To Social Mobility](#the-presence-of-virtue-especially-magnanimity-must-correlate-to-social-mobility)

When people come to this realization that these "games" are not fair,
do you think that will result in more effective incentivization
structures or less? Do you think that will result in more effective
sociocultural evolutionary mechanisms that tend to increase regional
productivity and prosperity? If your system's design produces
monoculture and unintentionally roots out anything that seems
different simply out of blind paranoia of dangerous black swan, it
will eventually lose out to another competing system whose
evolutionary mechanisms enable innovation and enable people to empower
themselves.

<a name="sorry-communists-evolutionary-mechanisms-and-dynamics-in-society-are-not-inherently-wrong" />

### [Sorry Communists, Evolutionary Mechanisms and Dynamics In Society Are Not Inherently Wrong](#sorry-communists-evolutionary-mechanisms-and-dynamics-in-society-are-not-inherently-wrong)

The ubermenschen are what transform society. They are the bridge to
stronger societies. This is why the cultivation of will to power is
crucial: our technocratic nightmare will socioculturally evolve into a
situation that deprives people of what usually causes them to develop
the will to power, which is the will to transform themselves, their
community, their world to be greater than it already is. Ironically,
the loss of all conditions that force us to struggle and the automatic
assumption of income provided to everyone, shuts down the evolutionary
mechanisms that transform us into higher and higher beings. While
these mechanisms certainly have the capacity for abuse and
containment, America is at a far greater risk of subversion via
Bolshevik tactics, where the revolutionaries will throw all their
weight into making the bottom fall out to incense the proletariat.

<a name="the-kernel-of-transvaluations" />

### [The Kernel of Transvaluations](#the-kernel-of-transvaluations)

What matters now more than anything is instilling a system of values
that never changes, but is always flexible. any rigidly fixed system
of values in today's world is going to lead to disaster. Another
paradox to balance! We must develop a kernel of values that promotes
diversity in value-systems, but also allows for stability and
truth. This self-recursive kernel of values must provide a basis for
the development of will in spite of the lack of willpower necessary to
survive. It must empower our eudaimonic actualization of being
humanity, tying us to our collective identity. It must not destroy the
notion of individuality. It must be based in truth and it must not
destroy our collective accumulation of culture thus far. Further, it
must coexist peacefully with antifragile sociopolitical design that
provides a basis of stability, so that we do not destroy ourselves.

<a name="despite-the-danger-of-dangers-authority-must-be-grounded-in-truth" />

### [Despite the Danger of Dangers, Authority MUST Be Grounded In Truth](#despite-the-danger-of-dangers-authority-must-be-grounded-in-truth)

If the root values system is not grounded in eternal truth, it will be
inevitably suffer a greater challenge than it can surmount. In order
for the system to serve the people, it *must* demonstrate the value of
its authority and the right to that authority. It must be able to do
so in a clear, transparent way otherwise the rule of law will
certainly be undermined. Respect for authority will fade away and
those who plan on replacing the authority with that which is
functionally identitical will egg this on: to gain power.

<a name="just-like-with-cosa-nostra-your-sin-becomes-your-vice-violating-intent-of-moral-systems" />

### [Just Like With Cosa Nostra, Your Sin Becomes Your Vice, Violating Intent of Moral Systems](#just-like-with-cosa-nostra-your-sin-becomes-your-vice-violating-intent-of-moral-systems)

Now more than ever, people need sociocultural systems that give us an
individual and shared sense of purpose. Without a system such as this,
which can withstand any challenges, we will surely fall to
demoralization and informational spectral decoherence. Abuse of these
secret systems developed with antifragile principles breeds disrespect
for what is supposed to stand watch over those aspects of humanity
with the greatest capacity to breed turbulence: greed, envy, sloth,
wrath, envy, pride and gluttony. Because these systems exist in
secret, they cannot be so easily questioned. If they become infected
by the same aspects of humanity they are supposed to guard us against,
they cannot justify their authority. And thus, such systems would not
serve us, but serve the vices and lust for power of those who command
them, who lure you into temptation that they might control you with
your sin. Does this produce positive transformation in society?

# [Occupational Therapy: Iatrogenic Medical Treatment Should Never Be A Weapon of Antifragile System Control](#occupational-therapy-iatrogenic-medical-treatment-should-never-be-a-weapon-of-antifragile-system-control)

Occupy Small Business?! Abuse of antifragile design applied to
sociophysical systems is psychological warfare with catastrophic
mental health casualties. Who are these casualties? Your mother, your
brother, your old friend who grew up down the street, your coffee
barista, your coworker who stood up for you, and your boss who tried
to stop threats to business assets like refrigerators or air
compressors. When did any of these people flash a badge?

Obviously, the debate over free health care shouldn't be front and
center here. However...

#### Jimmy Got Free (Iatrogenic) Health Care

![Jimmy got Free Health Care](/img/posts/2017-10-06-fatal-flaws-of-antifragile-system-design-patterns/jimmy-southpark-torture.jpg)

What was originally meant for national security has turned in to
self-serving racketeering. Tactics for psychological warfare include
sociophysical containment of perceived threats with by locking them in
your car(e). Read Psalm 46:9 -- "He maketh wars to cease unto the end
of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he
burneth the chariot in the fire." When social hierarchy is viewed as
territory to be conquered, defended and given to some as a reward for
subservience, then this exacerbates the tendency for racketeering,
especially for movements like the remnants of Occupy Wall Street. If
they oversell a "national security" threat to their management, they
get larger budgets to further drive this
[Sepsis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sepsis), where the immune
system invades the bloodstream and attacks all the organs.

<a name="an-eye-for-an-eye-makes-the-whole-world-go-blind" />

### ["An Eye For An Eye Makes The Whole World Go Blind" - Ghandi](#an-eye-for-an-eye-makes-the-whole-world-go-blind)

It pays to learn about history. I have had little time to do anything
else. There is rampant
[Zersetzung](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zersetzung) in this country
and it is coming from the far left, who subsumed many of the programs
initiated by Bush to leverage them against the American people. They
knew that the conservatives could be threatened with the comorbid
culpability of programs that Republicans initially started.

<a name="stand-down-bolsheviks-you-will-not-threaten-prosperity" />

### [Stand Down, Bolsheviks, You Will Not Threaten Prosperity](#stand-down-bolsheviks-you-will-not-threaten-prosperity)

However, radical leftists have used this assumption as carte blanche
to take things way to far!  Worse, they are destroying the country
with their Bolshevik tactics. Worst of all, these
[Saul-Alinsky-type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Saul_Alinsky)
radical communists fuel their utilitarian tactics with cognizance of
the FACT that communism implicitly undermines the US Dollar as the
world's reserve currency. The worst of the far-far-left *does*
understand that they cannot deliver on what they promise. They know
that they are selling their strategies and their promises of
government services to the moderate left, who the Alinsky's plan on
using to undermine the international financial order. That means RUIN
for America, NOT an end to poverty.

Over the past twenty years, there has been major sociopolitical
churn. One side slowly gains control at the expense of the other side,
only to blow its advantage by enacting hard-headed reforms. These
aren't the reforms we need. Instead, this is how the twin party system
works. They advance a shared set of interests, harnessing
sociopolitcal churn from one side to another, to acheive ever-forward
progress towards their agenda of deconstructed policy objectives. For
example: the War on Drugs prepared us for totalitarianism and
draconian policies like narcs. These same policy components have
become the basis and precendent for widespread surveillance and the
tactics of Homeland Security. Each side advances these with
sociopolitical churn, little by little, and they never recede. The
attainment of these deconstructed objectives is very important because
otherwise we may have never been prepared for the 21st century.

<a name="free-dcunit3d" />

### [Free @dcunit3d](#free-dcunit3d)

However, the government is now out of control. Instead, we should come
together and unite Washington DC for the steady and unending
advancement of all Americans. The unending churn is wasted
opportunity. We must unite now and we cannot continue attacking
ourselves.
