---
title: "Civil Disobedience and the Operational Level of Information Warfare"
categories: "graphics"
tags: "operational-strategy military information-warfare civil-disobedience"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
Today, we are approaching a world with unprecedented sociocultural
dynamics that have never been part of the paradigm of secrecy in every
era until now. Since the epoch before commerce and discovery of
metallurgy, the incentive to keep information secret has pervaded
culture, even resulting in cultural movements such as
esotericism. That prevailing paradigm of secrecy, often relegated to
the background of human culture, has in recent years eluded the need
for close inspection."
---

Today, we are approaching a world with unprecedented sociocultural
dynamics that have never been part of the paradigm of secrecy in every
era until now. Since the epoch before commerce and discovery of
metallurgy, the incentive to keep information secret has pervaded
culture, even resulting in cultural movements such as
esotericism. That prevailing paradigm of secrecy, often relegated to
the background of human culture, has in recent years eluded the need
for close inspection.

> "Remember, I'm writing this article with less than $20 to my name
> and less than $400 in annual income from 2016. I have never taken
> money from the US Federal Government, except two years of income tax
> refunds." -- Me, the victim, which is crucial to remember when dealing
> with overwhelming blame-the-victim tactics.

Here's my snapshot of my grades on my Coursera profile. I'm a lifelong
learner who has dabbled and/or has a basic working-knowledge of
bioinformatics, epigenetics, chemistry, physics, law, international
law, maritime law, military doctrine, logistics, business, venture
capital, finance, accounting, pure math, programming, pharmacology,
philosophy, linguistics, semiotics and countless other subjects. But
in an economy where a myriad of skills fuel your capacity for
employment, I still can't find a job.

![Coursera Pic](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/coursera-grades.png)

#### I Also Took Crypto I, But Skipped the Final

# [References for Legal Ideas Discussed](#references-for-legal-ideas-discussed)

## [US Naval War College International Law Review](http://stockton.usnwc.edu/ils/)

#### (2015) **[Is There a Way Out of the Non-(International Armed Conflict) Detention Dilemma?](http://stockton.usnwc.edu/ils/vol91/iss1/3/)**

#### (2016) [Arbitrary Withholding of Consent to Humanitarian Relief Operations in Armed Conflict](http://stockton.usnwc.edu/ils/vol92/iss1/15/)

#### (2015) [Authorization versus Regulation of Detention in Non-International Armed Conflicts](http://stockton.usnwc.edu/ils/vol91/iss1/5/)

#### (2015) [Targeting and Detention in Non-(International Armed Conflict)](http://stockton.usnwc.edu/ils/vol91/iss1/2/)

## [Harvard International Law Journal](http://www.harvardilj.org/)

#### (2016) [International Law Constraints as Executive Power](http://www.harvardilj.org/2016/04/volume-57-issue-1/) (Discussion of legal basis for drone strikes via executive process)

#### (2016) [Human Rights Treaties and Foreign Surveillance: Privacy in the Digital Age](http://www.harvardilj.org/2015/09/volume-56-issue-1/)

#### (2016) [Channeling Unilateralism](http://www.harvardilj.org/2015/09/volume-56-issue-2/) (transnational crime and sanctions)

## Statistics Paradoxes in Psychology

#### (2013) [Simpson's paradox in psychological science: a practical guide](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3740239/)

#### [Algebraic Graph Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_graph_theory)

#### [Graph Polynomials and Graph Transformations in Algebraic Graph Theory](https://www.cs.elte.hu/math/phd_th/csiki.v2.pdf)

## Ex Parte Case Law

#### (1866) [Ex Parte Milligan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ex_parte_Milligan)

## [Unprecedented Dynamics of Information Flux](#a-new-social-paradigm-powered-by-unprecedented-dynamics-of-information-flux)

#### &#x0298; [Entire Sectors Engaged in Secret Behavior Evolve In The Dark](#entire-sectors-engaged-in-secret-behavior-evolve-in-the-dark)

#### &#x0298; [It's Tough Being A Snowflake In Hell](#its-tough-being-a-snowflake-in-hell)

#### &#x0298; [Automatic Generation of Disinformation By Algorithmic Extrapolation](#algorithmic-generation-of-disinformation-by-algorithmic-extrapolation)

## [Human Rights and Rigorous Utilitarian Efficiency](#human-rights-and-rigorous-utilitarian-efficiency)

#### &#x0298; [Ex Parte -- Surprise! Just Kidding, We'd Never Tell *You*](#ex-parte-surprise-just-kidding-wed-never-tell-you)

#### &#x0298; [The Nature of My Persistant Inquisition Remains A Mystery](#the-nature-of-my-persistant-inquisition-remains-a-mystery)

#### &#x0298; [The Documented IC Drone Strike Process Is Terrifyingly Similar to Ex Parte Cases](#the-documented-ic-drone-strike-process-is-terrifyingly-similar-to-the-ex-parte-cases)

#### &#x0298; [Inviting Group Sociopathy](#-invite-hivemind-sociopath)

#### &#x0298; [Mobbing, Negative Processing via Psychological OT and Occupational Injustice](#mobbing-negative-processing-via-psychological-ot-and-occupational-injustice)

## [A Cover AND A Growth Hack](#a-cover-and-a-growth-hack)

#### &#x0298; [Organized Crime Becomes Comorbid](#organinized-crime-could-become-comorbid)

#### &#x0298; [Marginalization By Silo For Protection of "National Security"](#marginalization-by-silo-for-protection-of-national-security)

#### &#x0298; [Unchecked Corruption Becomes Metastatic](#unchecked-corruption-becomes-metastatic)

#### &#x0298; [Self-Incrimination Reinforces Collusive Patterns of Behavior Under Cover](#self-incrimination-reinforces-collusive-patterns-of-behavior-under-cover)

#### &#x0298; [Surveillance-Powered Harassment](#surveillance-powered-harassment)

#### &#x0298; [Logistics and Anticipated HomeSic Growing Pains](#logistics-and-anticipated-homesic-growing-pains)

## [NSA Surveillance and Streamed Data Signals Enable Horrifying Abuses](nsa-surveillance-and-streamed-data-signals-enable-horrifying-abuses)

#### &#x0298; [Greater Prevalence of Psychological Tactics](#greater-prevalence-of-psychological-tactics)

#### &#x0298; [Insufficient Records of Activity Employing Psychological and Medical Means](#insufficient-records-of-activity-employing-psychological-and-medical-means)

## [Ramifications to International Law Evolutionary Dynamics](#ramifications-to-international-law-evolutionary-dynamics)

#### &#x0298; [Systematic Harassment Campaigns Utilizing Psychological Torture: Warcrimes](#systematic-harassment-campaigns-utilizing-psychological-torture-warcrimes)

#### &#x0298; [An International Quasi-Armed Conflict Fought With Psychological Warfare](#an-international-quasi-armed-conflict-fought-with-psychological-warfare)

#### &#x0298; [No, "What is Transnationalism?" Is Not Actually a Valid Response to Trebek.](no-what-is-transnationalism-is-not-actually-a-valid-response-to-trebek)

#### &#x0298; [Transnationalism Is Not Solid Material](#transnationalism-is-not-solid-material)

## [I Might Be An Idiot Savant, But I'd Rather Just Be A Savant](#i-might-be-an-idiot-savant-but-id-rather-just-be-a-savant)

#### &#x0298; [N-Polynomial Expansion Provides A Parameterizeable Analytical Solution for Approximating Any Problem](#n-polynomial-expansion-provides-a-parameterizeable-analytical-solution-for-approximating-any-problem)

#### [Simpson's Paradox, As Applied to The Discovery of Correlated Time Series Events](#simpsons-paradox-as-applied-to-the-discovery-of-correlated-time-series-events)

#### &#x0298; [How You Like Them Apples?!](#how-you-like-them-apples)

## [Natural Justice and the Human Condition](#natural-justice-and-the-human-condition)

#### &#x0298; ["The Emperor Wears No Clothes"](#the-emperor-wears-no-clothes)

#### &#x0298; [Apathy and Virtualized Life Begin to Annul The Precipitation of a Movement]()

## ["Find Your Salt March"](#find-your-salt-march)

#### &#x0298; [Britain Controlled India By Leveraging Salt to Control the Food Supply](#britain-controlled-india-by-leveraging-salt-to-control-the-food-supply)

#### &#x0298; [Can't Win? Play Another Game](#cant-win-play-another-game)

#### &#x0298; [Ghandi's Salt March Harnessed the Social Network ... in 1930!!](#ghandis-salt-march-harnessed-the-social-network-in-1930)

#### &#x0298; [The Power of The Salt March Drew From Its Simplicity and Intrisic Relatability](#the-power-of-the-salt-march-drew-from-its-simplicity-and-intrinsic-relatability)

#### &#x0298; [Only *Some* of the Protestors Would Become Direct Targets of Oppressive Tactics](#only-some-of-the-protestors-would-become-direct-targets-of-oppressive-tactics)

## [Cognizance of the Effects of Tactics Countering Civil Disobedience](#cognizance-of-the-effects-of-tactics-countering-civil-disobedience)

#### &#x0298; [Cognizance of Social Physics](#cognizance-of-social-physics)

## [Is This A Muted Conflict Waged Against Our Own Citizens?](#is-this-a-muted-conflict-waged-against-our-own-citizens)

<a name="unprecedented-dynamics-of-information-flux" />

# [Unprecedented Dynamics of Information Flux](#a-new-social-paradigm-powered-by-unprecedented-dynamics-of-information-flux)

In the 21st century, the dynamics of information flux in society are
fundamentally different, as secrecy becomes asymptotically more
difficult to maintain, as does retention of secret information in
confidence of its permanence. This leads to interesting and
occasionally depressing patterns in system dynamics.

In context of modernization, globalization and the internet, (the
spread of "fluxable" "space") over which information can quickly
spread is much larger and nearly complete for the first time in
history. It will remain "complete" with regard to human culture until
we reach space, which may create a new paradigm change in human
culture, depending on the viability and specifics of quantum
networking.

> "*AMERICA!* Red Robin, heart disease and NASCAR! Fuck 'em free
> thinkin' frilly philosopher types."

<a name="entire-sectors-engaged-in-secret-behavior-evolve-in-the-dark" />

### [Entire Sectors Engaged in Secret Behavior Evolve In The Dark](#entire-sectors-engaged-in-secret-behavior-evolve-in-the-dark)

The sectors of society most affected evolve to become more active
without our knowledge: military, finance, and the intelligence
community. Three phenomena radical alter aspects of society that
depend on secrecy: increased "volume" of nodes in the social graph for
information dispersion, exponentially increased surface area creating
each vulnerabilities and capacity for information flux, along with
(infinitely) more velocity or divergence of information flux. Because
these apsects of society reduce the confidence with which information
can be contained, a new (paradigm) arises in the tactics of
information warfare operations. This (paradigm) incentivizes
scapegoating and witchhunt operations, wherefore the targets are
political dissidents and whisteblowers.

<a name="its-tough-being-a-snowflake-in-hell" />

### [It's Tough Being A Snowflake In Hell](#its-tough-being-a-snowflake-in-hell)

This is terrifying, in context of novel neuroscience technologies and
the already blurred notion of identity. Once the domain of science
fiction, you could have memories implanted as a political dissident to
be made an example and unjustly humiliated in front of the entire
nation.

![Lapis-Lazuli](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/hecatia-lapislazuli.jpg)

> And it's just business, nothing personal... Welcome to Hell, baby
> snowflake. You'll be here for a little while, but not for long. Ford
> manufactured the Model-T in every color and you have freedom of
> speech as long as you acknowledge your limitations, tremoring in
> fear. Hey, at least there's still freedom of religion, right?

<a name="algorithmic-generation-of-disinformation-by-algorithmic-extrapolation" />

### [Automatic Generation of Disinformation By Algorithmic Extrapolation](#algorithmic-generation-of-disinformation-by-algorithmic-extrapolation)

The tendancy of convergence towards information omnipresence leads to
tactics to handle the second and third order effects. From the lens of
functional analysis and a mathematic approach to information, one
should use a "metric" to quantify a neighborhood of "adjacent"
information, which allows the automated enumeration of misleading
disinformation. This isn't such a bad tactic. There are more second
and third order effects in our shared virtual theatre of information
warfare, which preciptates deceptive tactics to deal with what are
acknowledged by all as inevitable information leaks.

<a name="human-rights-and-rigorous-utilitarian-efficiency" />

# [Human Rights and Rigorous Utilitarian Efficiency](#human-rights-and-rigorous-utilitarian-efficiency)

From a mindset of rigorous utilitarian efficiency not limited by the
burdens of "human rights" and civilian welfare, one should just
instead adapt their tactics to assuming the inevitable and find an
appropriate scapegoat as an example to others. As we begin to quantify
the movement of information through social networks, some of us may
begin to anticipate information leaks, identifying convenient cover
for discrediting targeted individuals. If this is done under the
auspices of national security, and especially if one utilizes the 1918
Espionage Act and Ex Parte court proceedings, this leads to casting
naive political dissidents as the underdog stars in their own poorly
understood demise. I have had people try manipulate me into thinking
they are legal counsel and they used this to get my trust, also
grounds for dismissal.

<a name="ex-parte-surprise-just-kidding-wed-never-tell-you" />

### [Ex Parte -- Surprise! Just Kidding, We'd Never Tell *You*](#ex-parte-surprise-just-kidding-wed-never-tell-you)

All one has to do is say the wrong thing to someone from another
country. If you pick a country like Canada, then you can trigger the
Espionage Act and all the legal teeth that come along with it, without
the subject's knowledge, *while minimizing the capacity for leaked
information to cause problems*. Since, the other participant is from
another country, the people involved will never communicate to resolve
disparity in accounts. From a game theory perspective, one can apply
the gradient and laplacian along with statistics to show that this set
of circumstances is just as incredibly convenient as it is
unlikely. How many birds are you gonna nail with that stone?

Injection of false information into these situations leads furthers
the degree to which the fight is not fair because HomeSic operates
under the pretense of national security and utilizes NSL's, whatever
they are. NSL is often a misnomer because these assholes don't operate
on paper and, especially if they did, there's no way people wouldn't
help me if they truly knew what was going on. The lack of records
increases the degree by which their actions can be construed as
indicative of cognizance.

<a name="the-nature-of-my-persistant-inquisition-remains-a-mystery" />

### [The Nature of My Persistant Inquisition Remains A Mystery](#the-nature-of-my-persistant-inquisition-remains-a-mystery)

The nature of my own situation remains a mystery to me, which leads me
to persistant inquisition. I guess I could be crazy, but that would
suck if someone's own testimony was disqualified or generally
manipulated against them in their own unknown Ex Parte
proceedings. This can feasibly operated *without their knowledge of
giving testimony.* In Ex Parte hearings, *the defendents usually don't
attend.* Testimony could theoretically proceed via wiretap, with the
cold, efficiency of a heartless psychopath.

> "No one will find out? Even if they do, no one will really care
> because we made sure he stayed a pariah?
>
> NO CONSEQUENCES?! *PERFECT!*
>
> -- Every sociopath ever

<a name="the-documented-ic-drone-strike-process-is-terrifyingly-similar-to-the-ex-parte-cases" />

### [The Documented IC Drone Strike Process Is Terrifyingly Similar to Ex Parte Cases](#the-documented-ic-drone-strike-process-is-terrifyingly-similar-to-the-ex-parte-cases)

#### TODO: link resource of documentation

Ex Parte and Espionage Act trials are similar to the legal process
used when the intelligence communities debate the necessity and
implementation of "drone" strikes, the documentation for which
actually specifies processes for deciding method of delivery. The
government in ex parte cases and drone strikes has essentially decided
the party's guilt in secret -- or quickly does in absence of the
defendents, a tragically ironic term because they aren't actually
allowed to defend themselves. The discussions instead center more on
the specifics of dispensing retribution, apparently...

- Millagan - Supreme Court ex parte precedent in US

### [Inviting Group Sociopathy](#-invite-hivemind-sociopath)

The ways and means of psychological warfare mean that (unless i'm
getting this wrong) sociopathy is employed in groups with behavior
coordinated along information from streams of signals of surveillence,
social media and other quantified metrics of behavior. This augments
workplace mobbing, campaigns to discredit, carniverous social dynamics
and meticulously planned witchhunt sidequests.

<a name="mobbing-negative-processing-via-psychological-ot-and-occupational-injustice" />

### [Mobbing, Negative Processing via Psychological OT and Occupational Injustice](#mobbing-negative-processing-via-psychological-ot-and-occupational-injustice)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;[Mobbing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mobbing)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;Negative Processing via [Psychological OT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occupational_therapy)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;[Occupational Injustice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occupational_injustice)

In the context of a recession, workplace mobbing is trivial to evoke
against political dissidents, which furthers the goal of marginalizing
them with
[occupational injustice](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occupational_injustice). Mental
Health efforts, rebranded as
[Occupational Therapy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occupational_therapy)
as cover for negative processing of psychology, seems to be
employed. This seems to be a crossover between medicine, mental
health, surveillance and OT.  OT could be masked under the cover of
academic studies, crossed with national security, which increases the
rationalization of total secrecy with retribution.

<a name="a-cover-and-a-growth-hack" />

# [A Cover AND A Growth Hack](#a-cover-and-a-growth-hack)

If your goals include expanding government provided healthcare with
socialism, this helps logistically overcome growing pains for both
types of organizations. So you can force government provided health
care on people *while* lashing out against political dissidents with
coercion and systematic disenfranchisement. Oops.

<a name="organized-crime-becomes-comorbid" />

### [Organized Crime Becomes Comorbid](#organinized-crime-could-become-comorbid)

Meanwhile, organized crime gets in while the getting's good and it's
way better because now they can do what they were going to do anyways,
but it's legal, so they minimize surface area of their operatives'
legal vulnerability. So ... the government *literally* turns into the
Mafia, not just apparently.

For the people at the heart of this, national security is a tempting
explanation for their actions because they need the concept national
security in the calculus of the common person's decision making. So,
they'll do it and they'll publicly use it as rational, unless it's a
specific case, where they'll secretly use it for rationalization while
strong-arming people who can't legally make a sound. If they ever make
a massive mistake, the temptation will be to keep it a secret to
prevent anyone from finding out, while flooding people's minds with
misinformation, without the knowledge of the target.

<a name="marginalization-by-silo-for-protection-of-national-security" />

### [Marginalization By Silo For Protection of "National Security"](#marginalization-by-silo-for-protection-of-national-security)

More to the point, if your strategy includes marginalization, then
you've ensured that the option of striking while no one's connected to
this person optimizes its secrecy, makes its timing more flexible,
increases the range of available options and increases the amount of
time that one has to run operations while no one's looking. To be
straight, these people would gladly intentionally isolate individuals
and employ career assassination for psyshcosocial manipulation.
Participation in such means you are complicit in enabling war crimes,
if these tactics are used against the wrong person.

<a name="unchecked-corruption-becomes-metastatic" />

### [Unchecked Corruption Becomes Metastatic](#unchecked-corruption-becomes-metastatic)

"National Security" is in quotes above because it appears to have been
at least occasionally abused as a convenient cover for systemic
corruption. What people don't understand about corruption is that, to
people caught in it, bribes are just about only comorbidity that has
pleasant qualities. Quite often, especially when systemic, corruption
never really comes to light. When it does, what comes to light is just
a portion of what lurks beneath.

<a name="self-incrimination-reinforces-collusive-patterns-of-behavior-under-cover" />

### Self-Incrimination Reinforces Collusive Patterns of Behavior Under Cover](#self-incrimination-reinforces-collusive-patterns-of-behavior-under-cover)

As long as they convince you to get your hands dirty, everyone loses
when HomeSic loses, therefore a sociological group dynamic
evolves. This dynamic counters the instinctive desire to stymie the
toxic miasma generated by rampant Cointelpro disruption tactics,
employed without oversight. Cointelpro-type operations haven't been
employed at such scale since the FBI's actions against civil rights
activists in the 1960's. The FBI famously sent MLK Jr. a letter which
harnessed suggestion in an admitted attempt to push him to suicide.

<a name="surveillance-powered-harassment" />

### [Surveillance-Powered Harassment](#surveillance-powered-harassment)

In the 21st century, Cointelpro disruption is executed with
unparalleled confidency and thus, hairpin efficiency. These operations
affect people on the left and the right. They result from surveillance
powered by social media signals and omnipresent hardwire to the
despair of the captains of 21st century industry.  Their interests
interests align with the people and we all lose when America loses,
which undermines the American economy, the foundation of prosperity
and security in America.

<a name="logistics-and-anticipated-homesic-growing-pains" />

### [Logistics and Anticipated HomeSic Growing Pains](#logistics-and-anticipated-homesic-growing-pains)

Witchhunt sidequests to publicly humiliate scapegoated individuals are
cleverly disguised initiatives for organizational expansion. They
offer the convenient opportunity to tackle the logistic growing pains
of the national security industry. Just make sure you pick someone
vulnerable whom you've ensured is socially isolated through a
decade-long campaign of misinformation. He's vulnerable and
practically a pariah?  *PERFECT!* No one will miss him as the tree who
fell with no one around.

> "The weak one's squeel the best, don't they? And they can't fight
> back, but it's kinda funny when they squirm, ain't it?" -- America,
> if I'm getting this right.

![Michael Jackson Popcorn](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/mj-popcorn.jpg)

# [NSA Surveillance and Streamed Data Signals Enable Horrifying Abuses](nsa-surveillance-and-streamed-data-signals-enable-horrifying-abuses)

Surveillance makes gaslighting operations cheaper and easier than
ever. so, if you have a psychopath in charge of your tactics, they can
operate with renowned, cold efficiency and the smugness of a
narcissist.

<a name="greater-prevalence-of-psychological-tactics" />

> When we build drones, we end up using them more frequently. When we
> research psychological torture, we end up using psychological
> torture. Do you really want this to be commonplace?

### [Greater Prevalence of Psychological Tactics](#greater-prevalence-of-psychological-tactics)

Greater appeal of psychological tactics in psychological warfare leads
to higher precedence, which leads to confidence, the sharing of
records and the development training processes/documentation, however
obscured. Further, gaslighting requires information handoff between
tight connections/relationships that are usually hidden from the
target and people around him/her.

Since gaslighting and harassment becomes more effective and easier to
hide, these kinds of tactic for handling problems become more
appealing. Just put people behind a brick wall of their own
delusions. There is no door.

<a name="insufficient-records-of-activity-employing-psychological-and-medical-means" />

### [Insufficient Records of Activity Employing Psychological and Medical Means](#insufficient-records-of-activity-employing-psychological-and-medical-means)

> This is a very bad sign.

The nature of record collection as a liability is a weakness and one
well known to the people cooperating. As long as psychological torture
remains off-book, it's incredibly difficult to prove, even though the
government will likely never be forced to hand over records. they
operated in secret without financial oversight or process
accountability or manipulated into doing so. *Therefore*, no one would
be aware of information not reported, not that anyone would ever hold
these organizations publicly accountable any way. Once corruption gets
bad enough it's self-reinforcing because everyone's on the take and,
for an operation, everyone is culpable.

<a name="ramifications-to-international-law-evolutionary-dynamics" />

# [Ramifications to International Law Evolutionary Dynamics](#ramifications-to-international-law-evolutionary-dynamics)

The foundations of international law that protect individuals,
unquestionable in the 20th century, find themselves undermined in
secret. A possible explanation for the US Naval War College's paper
searching for loopholes is that they are searching for loopholes for
transnational conflicts elsewhere. This could therefore apply to
psychological torture and surveillance-feuled harassment.  In this
paper, part of the discussion centers on how Transnationalism expands
the frame by which certain international treaty provisions are
examined. Particular types of arguments will render the applicability
of various provisions which protect the sacred nature of human rights.
To a degree, a failure of superpower nations to respond to this is
terrifying and portending.

![Super saiyan](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/goku-super-saiyan.png)

The capacity by which international institutions evolve becomes
limited once they are set in stone. Therefore a time of great
sociological and phenomenological change may be the wrong time to
stifle innovation by threat and little debated coercion.

<a name="systematic-harassment-campaigns-utilizing-psychological-torture-warcrimes" />

### [Systematic Harassment Campaigns Utilizing Psychological Torture: Warcrimes](#systematic-harassment-campaigns-utilizing-psychological-torture-warcrimes)

By the way, there is a legal argument that psychological torture
against a former US citizen opens up the perps to legal vulnerability.
This applies when one is labelled under the NDAA as a non-enemy
combatant and/or targeted individuals. I might only know enough about
international law to be dangerous, but this argument deserves further
inspection. The same argument is discussed in the international law
article referenced above (oh hey, imagine that!) but it apparently
applies to another situation. This argument is compelling enough to at
least warrant public hearing. This reasoning is that those labelled as
non-enemy combatant targets are no longer US Citizens and these are
thus transnational conflicts.

Oh, and if you attempt to run, certain international legal protections
are activated when one attempts to stop refugees from leaving their
country. Those same legal protections should probably apply in
transnational conflicts, especially when the tendency is to keep
victims in the dark and depriving them of financial resources and a a
career, so they have or use the option to run. Again, intentionally so
that these protection aren't activated. It's criminal and implies
legal research, the efforts of which are in themselves a warcrime.
That's right, it's a warcrime to provide legal advice on how to get
away with a warcrime.

<a name="an-international-quasi-armed-conflict-fought-with-psychological-warfare" />

### [An International Quasi-Armed Conflict Fought With Psychological Warfare](#an-international-quasi-armed-conflict-fought-with-psychological-warfare)

In turn, these transnational conflicts should then qualify as
international quasi-armed conflicts fought with psychological warfare,
where psychology and sociology have been weaponized against people. If
this sounds liberally defined, it's not. The effects of this kind of
psychological warfare behind the backs of our citizens have been
disastrous in the scope of costs to society and fiscal costs of mental
heath. If the sections of the Geneva Convention covering psychological
torture actually apply to this kind of situation, that means these are
war crimes. Oops, I guess the architects of this system missed
something.

<a name="no-what-is-transnationalism-is-not-actually-a-valid-response-to-trebek" />

### [No, "What is Transnationalism?" Is Not Actually a Valid Response to Trebek.](no-what-is-transnationalism-is-not-actually-a-valid-response-to-trebek)

Almost no one can claim to be correct if their explaination references
transnationalism in an unqualified with a proposition. Why? What is
transnationalism? Nobody fucking knows. Since transationalism acquires
various labels and varied handling in different studies of humanities,
it's true nature remains highly elusive to me.

It's utility in profoundly known capacity for smashing the Treaty of
Westphalia is palpable, if rarely examined. The treaty established the
foundation of paradigm of geographically defined nation
states. Transnationalism is like the kryptonite to the permanence of
western institutions that upheld the international framework of global
governance in recent centuries.

<a name="transnationalism-is-not-solid-material" />

### [Transnationalism Is Not Solid Material](#transnationalism-is-not-solid-material)

Transnationalism is a little-known and thus a poorly defined, mutable
concept. For example, the concept of a transnational corporation is
completely different than a transnational conflict. But, a
transnational NIAC is not bound by the provisions of the Geneva
Convention which bar the use of psychological torture.
Transnationalism in its legal sense threatens to undermine certain
long held constants of interational law. The fluid nature of
transnationalism tends torwards flexibility for legal applications,
but also contributes to risk of redefinition. Thus, reinspection of
decisions where transnationalism was material to an argument.

What results? The desired endstate of postnationalism which, if
reified, pervades at least until we colonize space.

<a name="i-might-be-an-idiot-savant-but-id-rather-just-be-a-savant" />

# [I Might Be An Idiot Savant, But I'd Rather Just Be A Savant](#i-might-be-an-idiot-savant-but-id-rather-just-be-a-savant)

These are like the things I talk about where the common person just
tells me I'm crazy. Because I'm on another spectrum: our wavelengths
aren't really comparable means of comparison.  These aren't statements
made as an attempt to sound smart. They come from a desire to find
other people like me, but apparently having unapproved friends is a
national security threat, especially friends who might understand what
i'm talking about or empathize with me.

<a name="n-polynomial-expansion-provides-a-parameterizeable-analytical-solution-for-approximating-any-problem" />

### [N-Polynomial Expansion Provides A Parameterizeable Analytical Solution for Approximating Any Problem](#n-polynomial-expansion-provides-a-parameterizeable-analytical-solution-for-approximating-any-problem)

From a time-series perspective, when more birds are hit with the same
stone, the probability of a coincidence of low probability events
becomes much less, when factored into a polynomial expansion of
combinatorial products of probability. This expansion of products and
sums can almost be expected to behave paradoxically because of the
nature of interdependency. No, really, it's statistics: there's
functional coupling between events, so they're not independent. It's
an understanding of social physics and the nature of these statistical
polynomial expansions representing a graph translated to a new
group. This informs my personal calculus because nature of the true
cause of comorbid occurances of similar metatypes/epitypes of events
clues me into discerning connections in life.

<a name="simpsons-paradox-as-applied-to-the-discovery-of-correlated-time-series-events" />

### [Simpson's Paradox, As Applied to The Discovery of Correlated Time Series Events](#simpsons-paradox-as-applied-to-the-discovery-of-correlated-time-series-events)

This applies to the saying "hitting X birds with one stone" because it
deals with groupings of a set of events, each bird getting hit. These
groupings are possibly correlated events to a stone being thrown,
which can be viewed as several interdependent events grouped into a
single driving event. The dependency graphs for various groupings of
interelated events can be enumerated. Each of these enumerable graph
structures can be transformed into another group of equations based on
polynomials. If the events are natural, then natural patterns of
weights will emerge. If the events are artificial, then signficant
patterns will emerge in the system(s) of polynomials that match the
correct dependency graph(s). Therefore, this paradox can be used in
this case to determine when more information is needed to explain
events.

#### A More Gentle Version of Simpson's Paradox Without Nested Groupings or Abstract Algebra

![Simpson's Paradox](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/simpsons-paradox.jpg)

[This study](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3740239/)
discusses another application of Simpson's Paradox to psychology, but
isn't referring to mathematically discovering which groupings of
events display correlation, which can signal that more information is
needed to explain events. Basically, groupings of enumerated
dependency graphs to discover correlation can be transformed into the
complete set of analytic solutions for the graphs. These analytic
solutions are polynomials and infinitisemal values arise exhibiting
specific patterns if they are natural and thus, the correct dependency
graphs show a high degree of independence. I'm not sure if there's a
name for a paradox that emerges from Simpson's Paradox, as used to
discover degree of correlation between events in a time series.

This is on the right track. In
[Algebraic Graph Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_graph_theory),
one can transform graphs to systems of polynomials like
[Tutte Polynomials](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tutte_polynomial).
Peter, in his PhD thesis
[Graph Polynomials and Graph Transformations in Algebraic Graph Theory](https://www.cs.elte.hu/math/phd_th/csiki.v2.pdf),
talks about Kelman's Transformation, which seems to be used to
manipulate the independence polynomials of
graphs. [Independence polynomials](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IndependencePolynomial.html)
are, in turn, used to measure the independence number of a
graph. These factors arise in algebraic graph theory and are a metric
of interdependency, which is what is discussed above. My point is
that, combinatorially enumerating graph structures for introspection
using polynomials gives rise to incredibly useful insights into the
nature and degree of correlation of events, indicating when one should
proactively assert more information to be disclosed reactively.

> [Independence Number](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IndependenceNumber.html) -
> the cardinality of the largest independent vertex set, i.e., the
> size of a maximum independent vertex set.

<a name="how-you-like-them-apples" />

![HOW YOU LIKE THEM APPLES?](/img/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare/how-you-like-them-apples.gif)

### [How You Like Them Apples?!](#how-you-like-them-apples)

It ain't easy, but that's how you know. There's a point beyond which
low probability events can be assumed to require more information to
explain: that is, they can't be explained by coincidence unless they
occur in isolation. Thus, they become paradoxically more likely to
require additional inspection for understanding and discernment of
cause. I think Americans actually under the assumption that both the
burden of proof falls on the state and one cannot, in ignorance, be
compelled to testify against oneself. It should be much easier for
people to defend themselves, but is this America? Or do I live in some
kind of arbitary wormhole legal system?

> I'm also isolated, having minimal contact with people capable of
> holding conversations with me involving my own interests, even if a
> person wanted to discuss them for more than 60 seconds. Such events
> rarely occur, like once a season or once a year for some
> subjects. In spite of this isolation, I seem to maintain intelligent,
> diverse ideation, which actually lends itself to my credit.
>
> My isolation stagnates my development in psychosocial and
> educational ways. If I didn't have the internet, Wikipedia, Coursera
> and Simons Institute, I'm not sure what I'd do. If I didn't begin
> understand social physics, I would have surely developed Stockholm
> Syndrome, which today is at the root of a "terror attack in Sweden"
> ... not very truly though. They're referring to someone held against
> their will in a prison of their mind, who's supposed to develop
> Stockholm Syndrome in a gaslighting operation, but didn't. Oops.
>
> If I didn't reappropriate situations around me, certain topics would
> just never come up. This is by design: chatter leaves evidence and
> provides fodder for the discernment of a situation. Further, Someone
> silo'd in stasis and isolation statis is at the mercy of the few
> social signals they are permitted. That is the purpose of
> disconnection and it makes someone more susceptible to gaslighting.

#### Stephen Colbert: Never Fjorget What Happened in Sweden

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QbN4QGhrkxg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<a name="natural-justice-and-the-human-condition" />

#### Ming+FS - The Human Condition

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qMfbR-u-1FM" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

# [Natural Justice and the Human Condition](#natural-justice-and-the-human-condition)

Natural justice coalesces from the shared, common nature of the human
condition.

MLK Jr. and Ghandi's movements were fueled by social dynamics created
and are dependent on sociocultural response to tragedy and overtly
clear wrong doing. Yearning for natural justice moves people to
action. In my opinion, this concept is similar to God's justice or the
"perfect justice" of which only God is capable of dispensing. The
search for understanding God as a judge seems to have inspired
religion to found institutions in pursuit of the codification of this
ideal set of laws. IMO, people today have no idea what the concept of
God actually is.

<a name="the-emperor-wears-no-clothes" />

### ["The Emperor Wears No Clothes"](#the-emperor-wears-no-clothes)

In this story, a child is moved to action because the corners we all
cut in adult life haven't yet marred the lens that the naive and
innocent use to see life. The human condition pushes us to want and
act for change when we allow ourselves to see what is intolerable in
life. This shared experience that informs us of an intuitive
understanding of right and wrong is what powered civil disobedience in
the movements of MLK Jr. and Ghandi. Civil disobedience is markedly
less effective in a society that censors information and distracts
with meticulously manufactured red herrings.  It doesn't mean these
tactics don't work, but we need to understand which aspects of the
system need to be dismantled so that civil disobedience remains
effective.

<a name="apathy-and-virtualized-life-begin-to-annul-the-precipitation-of-a-movement" />

### [Apathy and Virtualized Life Begin to Annul The Precipitation of a Movement](#apathy-and-virtualized-life-begin-to-annul-the-precipitation-of-a-movement)

The confluence of factors seems intentional.  An age of both apathy
and virtualized life begins to annul the capacity for growing a
movement. If someone at the center of a controversy isn't permitted to
have an open movement of sympathizers or supporters, there is zero
chance this person would have a fair trial. If the details of such a
national security case were known to be required to remain secret or
the outcome of the case was essentially implicit, being ex parte, then
there would also be near-zero chance for actual justice or fair
trial. Further, the likelihood of someone in such a case ever finding
out is limited.

<a name="find-your-salt-march" />

# ["Find Your Salt March"](#find-your-salt-march)

The forces that we're fighting are using the system against us. In
India, Britain controlled the market for salt. This was before
widespread refrigeration, even in the developed world.

When I got sent to the ER and institutionalized into a mental health
facility, what was I doing? Sitting in front of the statue of Martin
Luther on the Roanoke College campus, reading Romans 7/8 and telling
people to "find their salt march." Apparently, non sequitors,
covert-yet-plainview protest and performance art are indications of
mental illness in 21st century society. So, like Martin Luther, I
faced retribution for an unwelcome message that wasn't well
understood. Oh and now I can't join the military because the people
who indicated surveillance couldn't be seen to have tortured a
patriot, so they interfered.

<a name="britain-controlled-india-by-leveraging-salt-to-control-the-food-supply" />

### [Britain Controlled India By Leveraging Salt to Control the Food Supply](#britain-controlled-india-by-leveraging-salt-to-control-the-food-supply)

Britain had a monopoly on the Salt market in India. High taxes
restricted its supply and provided funding to Britain in proportion to
the appetite of the population of India. The world is a different
place now, but in early 20th century India, salt was so tightly
controlled that it was illegal for Indians to produce their own
supply.

This was an incredibly effective mechanism of control because Indians
couldn't withstand going without salt for more than a few weeks, since
salt was still tightly coupled to food. That is, Indians were
compelled to be dependent on their obedience to the British for food.
Any time there was local protest in India, the British could play the
Indian people against each other. Controlling the salt and indirectly
controlling the food in an area allowed them to reinforce control and
monitor where the resistance was coming from.

They could simply switch things up to economically and socially favor
those Indians who would break rank and stifle any protests. Until this
was corrected, protests almost served as a means of identifying the
structure of dissent, which gave british forces a list of people to
work against in a local region. This is similar to the nature of
online dissent in an era where virtual, digitized interactions pervade
the sum of human interactions.

<a name="cant-win-play-another-game" />

### [Can't Win? Play Another Game](#cant-win-play-another-game)

Protesting British control seemed counter-effective! It just served as
a means to become identified. These people would have their neighbors
and friends played against them. Again, this is frighteningly similar
to America today.

> That is how it works folks. Most of this is speculation on how the
> british controlled india, by the way. so I might be omitting
> information that would change how this is viewed. But basically, who
> ever was caught providing the means for people to resist -- extra
> salt, storing large amounts of food, passing messages -- they would
> be singled out if they helped organize anything!

<a name="ghandis-salt-march-harnessed-the-social-network-in-1930" />

### [Ghandi's Salt March Harnessed the Social Network ... in 1930!!](#ghandis-salt-march-harnessed-the-social-network-in-1930)

In 1930, Ghandi organized a protest, where he simply started walking
240 miles to a place in the Arabian Sea, where he could pick up the
salt of the earth.

By the time he got there, there were thousands of people following
him. His protest was effective because of how simple it was. He had a
bit of notoriety beforehand, but this was a movement that encouraged
others to become involved. Those who marched 200+ miles with him would
remember that for the rest of their lives. Thousands of people
marching together from various regions allowed those people to form a
network of dissenters who would communicate to organize and accelerate
growth of the resistance.

<a name="the-power-of-the-salt-march-drew-from-its-simplicity-and-intrinsic-relatability" />

### [The Power of The Salt March Drew From Its Simplicity and Intrisic Relatability](#the-power-of-the-salt-march-drew-from-its-simplicity-and-intrinsic-relatability)

It seemed unquestionable to India and the rest of humanity that the
people of a nation should have control over the production of
necessary resources, especially food. It related to and resonated with
the entire global community And it was so simple. How can one make the
salt of the earth illegal? How could that possibly be illegal?

<a name="only-some-of-the-protestors-would-become-direct-targets-of-oppressive-tactics" />

### [Only *Some* of the Protestors Would Become Direct Targets of Oppressive Tactics](#only-some-of-the-protestors-would-become-direct-targets-of-oppressive-tactics)

Furthermore, it wasn't really illegal until these people got to the
Arabian Sea. That is, for the entire march, they were gaining momentum
and it wasn't until they got there that they were "committing" a
"crime" for which the enemy might arrest them! Only those who
committed the crime where able to charge a crime, unless the people in
power used heavy-handed tactics in retribution. In the context of
civil disobedience, this makes people increasingly question the nature
of social mores, norms and laws.

Ghandi succeeded by getting people involved. He leveraged a powerful
network of people who were willing to stand alongside him and make
sacrifices for a cause. Somehow, he managed to build this network and
it takes a very special kind of person to intuitively understand how
this is done.

<a name="cognizance-of-the-effects-of-tactics-countering-civil-disobedience" />

# [Cognizance of the Effects of Tactics Countering Civil Disobedience](#cognizance-of-the-effects-of-tactics-countering-civil-disobedience)

And be sure: people around the world who help implement systemic
suppression know this. They have studied civil disobedience and
resistance, so the people trying to discourage dissent tailor their
tactics to sniff out organization and crush it before it gains
momentum. The key is figuring out how to find a message that resonates
with peoples hearts and making it go viral, but making it illegal to
do so prevents one from finding justice. This is tragic when covert
action should be found reprehensible.

<a name="cognizance-of-social-physics" />

### [Cognizance of Social Physics](#cognizance-of-social-physics)

Ghandi was conscientious & self-aware of his manipulation of social
networking. If this is correct, then Ghandi would have started 200 or
so miles out from the Arabian Sea and, to maximize the effect of the
salt march, he would have sent people north, northwest, south and
southwest at the start of his march to gather as many people as
possible.

<a name="is-this-a-muted-conflict-waged-against-our-own-citizens" />

# [Is This A Muted Conflict Waged Against Our Own Citizens?](#is-this-a-muted-conflict-waged-against-our-own-citizens)

Are we engaged in psychological warfare against our own citizens?  Is
there widespread information warfare? People deserve a right to know
of the negative miasma being injected into their lives. It's cowardly
to shoot someone in the back.

I hate to be a smug, nerdy asshole, but here it comes. Here's what I
love about the combinatorial process by which one enumerates over
sociocultural phenomena like information warfare to discover exigent
finalities: I'm right and you're wrong. There are no circumstances
that would allow this ignorant, corrupt behavior to continue
indefinitely. The phenomena mutate akin to data under genetic
permutation until they reach these settling exigent finalities.  Then,
everyone begins to understand how I was correct all along. I do it all
the time.

So you see, it doesn't actually matter what you *think* because I
*know*. This goal of questioning the status quo of our police state
partly justifies creating a religion that should aid the efforts
towards human rights in international law. Therefore, Oneirontology.
And Oneirontology fits every quality of a true religion. In this
respect isn't simply a trivial religion in its legal application and
thus finds a place in working towards justice in this regard. Even if
I were delusional about the interpretation of some information in my
life, most of these points in my argument are still relevant for
anyone in this position, which I'm sure my enemies will try to use as
just one more rationalization for shutting me up.
