---
title: "Harnessing the Congruence of the Human Condition for Natural Justice"
categories: "blog"
tags: "politics sociology philosophy civil-disobidence information-warfare"
headline: "Stay woke, my friends. Stay woke!"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: "
So, if through knowledge people align their energy, which is their
individual capacity to change their local circumstances, our
collective capacity to change the world is magnified in proportion
greater than the number of people who come together. As we continue
fighting each other in diametric opposition, we only cause ourselves
to become vulnerable to subversion. Yet, if we decide to move forward
together, then the restraints of injustice become like gossamer chains
and are only as strong as the remnants of collective delusion..."
---

The universiality of the human condition can be harnessed to drive
humanity's willpower to improve it. In the 21st century, this remains
true insofar as our ability to eludicate our common experience is not
muted by censorship, diminished by overstimulation or relegated to
faint adumbration by our filter bubbles.

When people witness or become aware of unjust events and patterns, the
human condition drives our desire to correct them. This is the concept
of natural justice, which is like a collective application of
karma. It results from our collective understanding of positive and
negative events in our own lives. Because the common thread running
through our lives is so much stronger than any dissonance which
reinforces any illusion of separation, then man becomes a vehicle for
natural justice, driven by the aggregate of our common experience: the
human condition.

When our local condition is negative, people see it for what it
is. With the proper means of unrestrained communication, which was the
promise of the internet, then when our global, aggregate condition is
negative, *people see it for what it is*. Within each man and woman
lies power to change their local circumstance. When we align our
collective willpower and our energy, we magnify our capacity for
changing our global circumstances. If you imagine summing a thousand
2D random vectors, then the result is very close to zero. If instead,
you closely orient those vectors in the same direction, the proportion
the latter sum to the former is far more than a thousand.

So, if through knowledge people align their energy, which is their
individual capacity to change their local circumstances, our
collective capacity to change the world is magnified in proportion
greater than the number of people who come together. As we continue
fighting each other in diametric opposition, we only cause ourselves
to become vulnerable to subversion. Yet, if we decide to move forward
together, then the restraints of injustice become like gossamer chains
and are only as strong as the remnants of collective delusion
... *STAY WOKE!*

Instead, with the proper metaphysical ju-jitsu, we can harness this
injustice and collectively transform it into willpower to overcome our
societal restraints. Little by little, every bit of injustice
witnessed furthers our collective conditioning to overcome it, as long
as we remain vigilant against delusion and subversion. When people
witness or become aware of extremely unfair events -- e.g. when
someone has utilized unfair tactics to target someone's friends and
family -- then because of our shared human condition, then those
people who become aware of the injustice will empathize with the
strife. This requires free communication. When you don't have the
ability to freely communicate, you cannot organize. Those who witness
the injustice will be moved to strive for justice, even if this means
taking on some pain themselves.

This is how natural justice works and it is the result of the nature
of God. Justice does not come from a courtroom or a Congress. Justice
comes from God. There are eminent metaphysical truths to human
existence, which collectively serve as a force for self-correction or
self-instantiation. When one zooms out and looks at aggregate human
interactions, such natural justice willing itself into being is
inescapable, no matter how hard one tries to suppress it. It arises
from social physics, the nature of information and our collective
response to the human condition. This ability to correct artificial,
man-made injustice becomes stronger as population grows.

Secret courts are the worst: how can anyone say justice has been
served in secret? True justice cannot be hidden. If it is in harmony
with truth and natural justice, then if it is made public, you will
witness no difference in reaction from people, as it is just. If it is
injustice, it will become known and you will witness a backlash
against secret proceedings, no matter what restrictions are in place
against disclosure.

> Whether the 3rd amendment or the 6th amendment is more important
> will be an argument for subsequent generations to decide, but today,
> Americans effectively have neither. The NSA's and the CIA's is in
> all your TV's and they'd mic your butthole if they could.

The human condition can be harnessed to correct social injustice on a
large scale, via non-violent tactics for intervention, such as those
employed by Ghandi and Dr. King. At first, people like Ghandi and
Dr. King were begged by their friends to just fall in line. Other
victims of the injustices they fought against begged people who would
stand up against these crimes to accept societal injustice because "it
was good enough" or "it could be worse" or "it's always been like
this, deal with it." Yet, by getting attention with the right means
and finding supporters who would crystallize around them, they drew
enough people into the fight whose interests aligned to make a
difference.

There is a critical mass of support that a group needs to sustain in
order to make a difference and, without it, people will become weary
and easily vulnerable to distraction. How did these hero's attain that
critical mass? Their movement required provoking their antagonists to
action, sometimes violent, and they harness humanity's sense of
natural justice and magnified it with publicity. If you don't have
that extra magnification from publicity, you have little more than
collective pain and suffering.

In our world, as connected as it is, it is incredibly frightening that
the promise of a equanimously connected internet could be
short-circuited by abuse of this same technology, enabling frightening
abuses. Today, it seems that, from the comfort of their implicit and
imposed filter bubbles, people just don't see the most egregious
violations. At the same time, people are willingly and unwillingly
roped into unpaid schemes to anonymously disempower people they don't
know. Not me. Do I look stupid to you? By the way, depending on the
specifics, that's border-line slavery. Oh, but you can't communicate
about it because it's "secret" and disclosure results in significant
penalty, cost to personal influence, or cost to personal assets, like
a family business.

When people are presented with the right information from the right
perspective, they will almost always make the right decision, at least
collectively. They will struggle for justice or change, even to their
own detriment, but such a cost should never be taken lightly or go
unrewarded. Who is willing to struggle the hardest? Who ideally
embodies the ideals of virtues which permit us to live in a society
which strongly coheres its justice to that of natural justice? What
makes people struggle? What do people have to learn in order to be
willing to struggle? If children, the naive and the innocent naturally
adhere to a sense of natural justice, then what is it that people
learn which collectively deludes them, short-circuiting their desire
to fight?

This insurmountable desire for equanimity, justice and truth often
lays dormant, especially in societies that lack dissonance between
artifical justice and natural justice. Collective experience of
injustice results in net growth of the willpower to enact
change. Knowledge provides us with insights on utilizing that
accumulated willpower most effectively. Such accumulated desire for
change is often subverted, so knowledge of history is particularly
important.

This insurmountable desire for equanimity can be tapped through just
the right push. It is driven by our human condition: that is, our
collective aggregate of common experiences faced throughout life.
