---
title: "Oneirontology: Engineering Cultural Touchstones for Mythos"
categories: "blog"
tags: "oneirontology religion semiotics linguistics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> Heads up: this article contains hot fire. Ne Touchez Pas! If
> Prometheus' fate disturbs you: don't play with fire, don't play in
> the street and don't touch [Dimension W](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimension_W).

Remember Prometheus? Cursed to being a liver-packed bento-box meal for
an Eagle. All day, every day, for eternity. Sounds super fun, right?
Who wouldn't love that?

#### Dimension W ... Don't Touch It!

![Dimension W](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/dimension-w.jpg)

### Warning: if you'd like to solve the mysteries of the universe yourself...

... then don't read this post. It discusses the principles of
architecture and design as applied to semiotics and mythology to
create worldview-evoking belief systems robust enough to stand the
test of time. Usually, like a priceless bottle of wine, such rare
knowledge requires generations of distillation. Within this article
are buried a hundred various PhD theses. Like Pokemon, can you catch
them all? If you get just one of them you can take that grant
application to the bank. Just send a thank you card or something.

![Up Up Down Down Left Right Left Right B A](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/konami-code.png)

After investing ten minutes in this article, you too can craft your
own belief system that will stand the test of time. Or at least
understand how "they" did it... It all has to do with semiotics.

#### This is...

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Design of Knowledge Systems](#design-of-knowledge-systems))

#### [Galvanization of Indurated Belief Systems](#galvanization-of-indurated-belief-systems)

#### [Weaving on the Universal Loom of Semiotics](#weaving-on-the-universal-loom-of-semiotics)

#### [Information Compression in Mythos](#information-compression-in-mythos)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Semiotic Mapping](#semiotic-mapping))

#### [Accumulating Utility, While Conserving Authenticity](#accumulating-utility-while-conserving-authenticity)

#### [Survival of the Fittest](#survival-of-the-fittest)

#### [The Pragmatic Traps of Church Founding and Dragon Slaying](#the-pragmatic-traps-of-church-founding-and-dragon-slaying)

#### [Significance of Semiotics to Mythology](#significance-of-semiotics-to-mythology)

#### [Temporally Invariant Signs](#temporally-invariant-signs)

#### [Geographically Invariant Signs](#geographically-invariant-signs)

#### [Zero Point Energy from Lacuna Dynamo](#zero-point-energy-from-lacuna-dynamo)

#### [Semiotics in Branding and Marketing](#semiotics-in-branding-and-marketing)

#### [Dynamical State Machines with Ergodic Stabilization of Metastates](#dynamical-state-machines-with-ergodic-stabilization-of-metastates)

#### [The Metasign Symmetry is the Most Universal Sign](#the-metasign-symmetry-is-the-most-universal-sign)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([The Shepherd, a Universal Sign](#the-shepherd-a-universal-sign))

#### [Jesus Was a Shepherd of Men](#jesus-was-a-shepherd-of-men)

#### [The Shepherd Bodhisattva in Mahayana Buddhism](#the-shepherd-bodhisattva-in-mahayana-buddhism)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Semiotics of Mythology](#semiotics-of-mythology))

#### [Tilings on the Astral Plane](#tilings-on-the-astral-plane)

#### [And Then Jesus Turned the Water into Wine...](#and-then-jesus-turned-the-water-into-wine)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Cultural Universals Are Semiotic Binding Points](#semiotic-binding-points-in-the-human-condition))

#### [This Most Monumental Task of Social Engineering](#this-most-monumental-task-of-social-engineering)

#### [Almos' Everes' But Never High Enough](#almos-everes-but-never-high-enough)

#### [You Haven't Even Seen Our Final Form](#you-havent-even-seen-our-final-form)

#### [A Stellar Tale of Might and Magic](#a-stellar-tale-of-might-and-magic)

#### [Ancient Communication Protocols and Autonomous Directives](#ancient-communication-protocols-and-autonomous-directives)

## &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Metrics of Semiotics](#metrics-of-semiotics))

#### [The Mind Has Its Own Curse of Dimensionality: Language](#the-mind-has-its-own-curse-of-dimensionality-language)

#### [Quantification of Semiotics for Statistical Methods](#quantification-of-semiotics-for-statistical-methods)

#### [Zipf's Distribution And Semiotics](#zipfs-distribution-and-semiotics)

#### [Interlingual Semantic Dissonance](#interlingual-semantic-dissonances)

#### [Humanity's Semiotic Graph Converges Towards the Universal Semiotic Graph](#humanitys-semiotic-graph-converges-towards-the-universal-semiotic-graph)

#### [Quantification of Semiotics for Statistical Methods](#quantification-of-semiotics-for-statistical-methods)

#### [The Mind Has Its Own Curse of Dimensionality: Language](#the-mind-has-its-own-curse-of-dimensionality-language)

#### [Quantification of Semiotics for Statistical Methods](#quantification-of-semiotics-for-statistical-methods)

#### [Zipf's Distribution And Semiotics](#zipfs-distribution-and-semiotics)

#### [Interlingual Semantic Dissonance](#interlingual-semantic-dissonances)

#### [Humanity's Semiotic Graph Converges Towards the Universal Semiotic Graph](#humanitys-semiotic-graph-converges-towards-the-universal-semiotic-graph)

The argument over the Hegelian and Marxist Dialectics presents itself
at the center of the struggle over the metaphysical. Marxists seem to
regard the metaphysical as a convenient tool, though mostly an
inconvenience. That it is something to be used and tightly controlled
because if people wake up to the Hegelian Dialectic, it essentially
undermines atheism, which empowers institutions other than the
state. Marxists have a clever joke when explaining the difference
between dialectics to the uninitiated.

> The Hegelian Dialetic? That's like a form of argument where you
> start out trying to prove something and end up proving yourself
> wrong but you just keep going.

Then they show you
[the letter Stalin wrote in 1938](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1938/09.htm),
where he essentially dictated the Marxist dialectic to the USSR and
acted like he was a philosopher.

<a name="the-struggle-is-real" />

### [The Struggle is Real](#the-struggle-is-real)

The struggle over the dialectic and it's implications for philosophy,
atheism and the meaning behind life is why studying semiotics and
linguistics is so important. Signs and language are like reified
metaphysical concepts that have managed to pierce through the
[Veil of Isis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Veil_of_Isis).

The struggle over the Hegelian and Marxist dialectic determines what
came first: physics or metaphysics. What is the true origination of
phenomena in our world? Does the metaphysical arise outside and
independent of the physical? Yes? You're a Hegelian. Is there simply
not enough evidence to show otherwise? You're probably an atheist,
which is amusing because you worship science and nowhere is it more
clear that phenomena arising from number theory determine the inner
workings of nature in quantum mechanics. Does it feel threatening to
you to find out you might be wrong and that, NO, *Stalin was not a
philosopher and merely dictated answers to Soviet philosophers because
someone told him it'd be a convenient foundation for power and
control?* You're a Marxist and I feel sorry for you, especially if
you've given yourself over to that abusive belief system concocted by
would-be tyrants.

Marxism is like the emotionally violent, drunken step-father of
structuralism. Or maybe it's the real father and the academically
entangled authors of Marxism foresaw the inevitable, depressing
arrival of structuralism and concocted a system of philosophy to abuse
it for total state control. If you don't know, structuralism sums up
why you should fear the NSA and its panopticon, shaped like a beast
with a thousand eyes and ears.

<a name="design-of-knowledge-systems" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Design of Knowledge Systems](#design-of-knoweldge-systems))

The truth is that neither the physical or metaphysical can exist
independently and are cyclically interdependent for whatever
reason. If one is forced to choose which is "higher" in the dependency
graph of physical or metaphysical, the answer is that the physical and
all of the metaphysical emerges from the cyclicly recursive
[kernel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel_(linear_algebra)) of the
metaphysical.

That is, the whole of the universe and all the metaphysical layered on
top of it emerge from math itself. If you represent this dependency
graph, then you can truncate the infinite recursion with a cycle, but
you you may need infinite cycles. Yes, it's cyclical logic. Do you
really care? There is no other correct answer. By
[GÃ¶del's logic](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/goedel-incompleteness/),
it is so decreed.

#### Gee, I really hope I'm not wrong about this math stuff because then I'll just have to edit my religion

![Jormungand](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos//jormungand.jpg)

<a name="galvanization-of-indurated-belief-systems" />

### [Galvanization of Indurated Belief Systems](#galvanization-of-indurated-belief-systems)

All knowledge and information will degrade over time. Most worldly
knowledge is nothing without a mind to host it. Therefore, if the
system of developing/spreading knowledge doesn't include a system of
perpetuating its distribution, then it will be impermanent. The system
becomes particularly vulnerable when it doesn't include recovery
mechanisms for handling distribution, dispersion, and reconstruction
of knowledge. When the system can't handle inevitable events where
it's nearly eliminated, it will almost certainly be overtaken by
another belief system at some point.

> i.e. if you're one of the three little piggies, you need to build a
> brick house and one that can withstand anything that comes its way.

Regardless of whether the belief system is religious or secular,
people need them. People prefer belief systems that accompany social
institutions which exhibit strong influences on their surroundings.
When a belief system retracts into fewer people, possibly due to
persecution, followers are less likely to benefit from the social
institutions. This not only tests your followers' devotion, but also
tests the value that your belief system has to offer if it manages to
sustain itself through times like these.

On the other hand, one can design knowledge systems whose operation
excels when or only when there is poor distribution and dispersion.
These systems are very difficult to root out, because like the
[Furyans of Riddick](http://riddick.wikia.com/wiki/Furyans), those who
have the knowledge gain power upon its near demise. Therefore, the
information economics of these systems can create incentives to
perpetuate the system when it's on its last legs.

<a name="weaving-on-the-universal-loom-of-semiotics" />

### [Weaving on the Universal Loom of Semiotics](#weaving-on-the-universal-loom-of-semiotics)

How does one become familiar with different systems of knowledge and
culture perpetuation? Like Merlin and the druids of Celt, one accrues
this knowledge over time, by learning to weave ideas and their
semiotic pointers.

#### Hello. There are some who call me Tim. I'm not sure why. That's not actually my name.

![There are some who call me Tim](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/there-are-some-who-call-me-tim.png)

Is this a skill? Is this a kind of knowledge in itself? And if so,
what is the basis of this skill of knowledge perpetuation? What are
the peculiarities of such skills and systems of knowledge? How much of
history are we missing, if there have always been massive incentives
to keep secret the inner workings of science and world politics?

The best place to learn about this is from cultures who went
underground by necessity. The Celts, the Nords and the Goths are all
perfect examples of cultures whose elements and mythologies were
forced underground as Christianity swept over Europe. Specifically,
the Nords developed Ragnarok, one of many apocalypse myths of world
culture.

The Nords, along with the rest of Europe, compromised and agreed to
surpress their pagan history for a united, geopolitically defensible
Europe. But what Ragnarok represents is a literal return of the pagan
gods at the antipated culmination of human history thus far:
overpopulation. Here, the Nords may have intentionally created this
myth as an amalgamtion of other myths in an attempt to conserve what
is essentially a ZIP file of their culture. *The Nords intended their
mythos to be unpacked and their Gods reified once more at a critical
time in history.*

<a name="information-compression-in-mythos" />

### [Information Compression in Mythos](#information-compression-in-mythos)

Information compression mostly works the same, whether you are
compressing text encoded into tries or compressing hashmaps of some
representation of data, semantic and/or semiotic. You're basically
trying to find a "folding" pattern for the data that makes it small
and compressible.

#### The Trie Data Structure For Zipping Data and Fitting Genomic Data Into RAM

![Trie Data Structure](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/trie-data-structure.png)

When applied to cultural mythos, this compression is advantageous:
tightly-packed ideas inspire thought and study to decompress
them. This required processing time and energy reinforces their
longevity within the minds that host them. Compression also serves as
a kind of camoflauge that protects these ideas and their functioning
from competing belief systems who will assuredly attempt
eradication. Light compression and obfuscation of myth also makes them
more viral, more viable and more likely to survive
[knowledge extinction events](/posts/2016-08-01-from-the-parapets-of-alexandria-knowledge-extinction-events.html).

<a name="cultural-dessication" />

### [Cultural Desiccation](#cultural-desiccation)

Cultures like the Norse and the Israelis relied on myth during times
of turmoil to preserve information in an encoded form. In terms of
European geopolitics, they could see which way the wind was blowing:
either Europe would be united through Christianity as a cultural basis
or become economically subservient to the Middle East. They codified
these myths in such a way as to ostensibly retain their cultural
identity while compressing a set of behaviors encoded in myth, whose
execution would begin upon apocalyptic events. Modernity's forefathers
deserve much more credit than we give them.

#### Mr. Paperclip is trying to help. How can you say no to [that face](https://www.google.com/#q=the+allusion+to+a+face+is+a+cleverly+disguised+joke+about+the+nature+of+semiotics)?

![Mr Paperclip](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/mr-paperclip.jpg)

#### Why do some cars look like they're smiling?

> Mr Paperclip has the answer: some signifiers are deeply engrained in
> our brains & genetics. It's why babies recognize human faces almost
> immediately. Is there something universal or simplicial about the
> specific structure of the human face that enables it to be encoded
> into our genes?

Ragnarok is perhaps the best example of a subversive attempt to use
information compression for cultural preservation. It's event-driven
eschatology to be invoked upon apocalypse, whence the Gods return. The
Norse priests all but disappeared, yet so long as that myth was
preserved, it contained everything that would be needed to ensure the
Gods return for one last battle. It was small and managed to escape
Christian persecution.

<a name="i-bet-superman-could-do-it" />

### [I Bet Superman Could Do It](#i-bet-superman-could-do-it)

If one were to design such a system today, one that should withstand
likely persecution of believers, what would one choose to preserve?
Which animals would we put on the Ark? All of them, right? How would
we determine what cultural elements remain truly immutable and hold
true, regardless of social upheaval that acompanies the Singularity?
If you took a look at the creek that became the Grand Canyon, how
would you survey the land to determine the rock formations that stand
the test of time, regardless of storm surge? The structure of the
Grand Canyon depended little on the specifics of the events and moreso
on the general nature, sequence and timing of those events.

Do you have X-Ray vision for fate?

<a name="semiotic-mapping" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Semiotic Mapping](#semiotic-mapping))

In regard to references of remapped semiotics, imagine something along
the lines of the following picture, but with a splash of
infinity. This picture distinguishes between functions that satisfy
various mapping properties, such as surjectivity and bijectivity. The
whole of mathematics, even functions with continuous domains and
ranges, are simply mappings.

![All Functions are Mappings](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/mappable-functions.jpg)

This, and other things which only seem like beautiful epiphanies to
those in love with mathematics, lay in wait before you. You squander
great power when you flatten phenomena and only allow them to be what
they "are" and that is the essence of post-structuralism. The secret
to escaping our shared structuralist nightmare is by expanding the
space between languages and societies, instead of flattening culture.

<a name="accumulating-utility-while-conserving-authenticity" />

### [Accumulating Utility, While Conserving Authenticity](#accumulating-utility-while-conserving-authenticity)

How do the authors of myth abstract and obfuscate, so that the core
ideas maintain authenticity? The belief system must be resillient to
external subversion, manipulation and persecution. It also must
maintain a degree of pliability. Because belief systems require
believers to achieve significance, then flexibility is an important
early factor, but this needs to be balanced with the system's need for
consistence and permanence.

Religions develop versatility of utility as they accumulate
generations of knowledge. How do you anticipate when a belief system
will need to change three generations from now? This is a paradox in
context of many religions' reliance on steadfastness as justification
for validity of their belief system. It's not like Jesus pitched an
amendment mechanism for Christianity. How do the Singularity and
modernization affect the peculiarities of religious evolution? After
the Singularity, many anticipate technological stagnation, but
increasing pace of change is definitely a problem beforehand. Is the
next stage in humanity's evolution finite?

<a name="survival-of-the-fittest" />

### [Survival of the Fittest](#survival-of-the-fittest)

Consider another case of our future where we instead lose the
knowledge & tools to comprehend in another Dark Age. How would we
update the package of myths today so that ideas remain readily
consumable and relevant no matter what happens tomorrow?

Too much flexibility and you end up with offshoot organizations. While
these allow the religion more flexibility and freedom, these
ultimately reduce capacity for the religion's social institutions to
benefit society. There is more risk when movements branch outwards
before there is enough precipitation of identity and shared culture.

<a name="the-pragmatic-traps-of-church-founding-and-dragon-slaying" />

### [The Pragmatic Traps of Church Founding and Dragon Slaying](#the-pragmatic-traps-of-church-founding-and-dragon-slaying)

In the design of your belief system, establishing this identity comes
before you reach the pragmatic traps of founding a religion. People
forget that even the most devout worshippers are human. Institutions
of man are often more fallible than man itself. Pondering the
pragmatic issues of founding a religion is complex, especially
comprehending the ways the seven deadly sins affect viable & robust
logistic structures of institions. Dealing with human nature
necessitates changes to the belief systems themselves and not just the
structures and processes of the institutions. The institutions must
exemplify the beliefs and practices of the religion. If the followers
cannot build robust institutions, your movement will fall apart. In
the past, when movements started dealing with the pragmatic issues,
the religion's founder had been beyond the grave for a century or
more.

<a name="significance-of-semiotics-to-mythology" />

### [Significance of Semiotics to Mythology](#significance-of-semiotics-to-mythology)

After learning linguistics, semiotics presents itself as another tool
to quantify and analyze the structure of myth, belief and
communication. As one transforms their understanding of linguistics to
higher orders, it begins to sheds its relationship to language. What
remains is the essence of semiotics. Therefore, semioitics is more
useful than linguistics for approaching the nature of information and
belief.

Semiotics involves signs composed of signifier and signified. The
universiality of symbols can be observed, measured and
stratified. Symbols have various degrees of universiality and whose
traits vary along linguistic, semiotic and psychosocial dimensions.
Understanding how a symbol's "market" penetration, and thus utility,
depends on its universiality and invariance, geographically and
temporally, allows one to understand the risk/payoff for investing
energy in remapping symbols.

<a name="temporally-invariant-signs" />

### [Temporally Invariant Signs](#temporally-invariant-signs)

There are temporally invariant symbols that are mostly permanent
fixtures of the human condition. These symbols are signs whose
signifier or signified concept can morph over time even though the
pairing is mostly retained as commonly understood. Or these temporally
universal symbols can be signs whose significance and meaning remains
steadfast regardless of the era or age. Temporally fixed symbols are
almost always geographically invariant as well: they are recognized
the world over with some variance in the mapping of signifier and
signified.

Temporal variance in semiotic mappings can have each linear, cyclical,
generational and developmental dynamics associated with
them. Especially in the context of modernization and globalization,
signs across the world are undergoing constant flux in how they are
mapped and in their degree of penetration. There are signs which only
develop or change in significance once someone reaches a certain age
and has been through specific experiences. There are signs which
develop specific intergenerational dynamics. **The relationships
between these signs and their penetration into geographically
dispersed populations offers *unparalleled insight* into psychosocial
cultural dynamics.** It begins to confer what can be perceived as
God-like wisdom and intuiton.

> "Religions have no value because they contain irrational information
> that cannot be logically demonstrated to be true." - Some Atheist
> Dude

<a name="geographically-invariant-signs" />

### [Geographically Invariant Signs](#geographically-invariant-signs)

Geographically invariant symbols are also special, but can change over
time, gaining or losing significance and affluence. Signs whose
signifier depends heavily on the traits of local regions have a high
degree of propensity for semiotic permutation, transformation and
evolution as they migrate from one area to another. They are less than
ideal, though useful for establishing and developing local identity.
If your religion or belief system is heavily invested in mapping
geographically variant signs, a central authority will lose power over
them as their meaning and mapping evolves over time and space.

<a name="zero-point-energy-from-lacuna-dynamo" />

### [Zero Point Energy from Lacuna Dynamo](#zero-point-energy-from-lacuna-dynamo)

There are signs whose power derives from scarcity: sexual images or
symbols of wealth and rare experiences. The influence derived from
signs whose power is derived from a lacuna of paucity is magical. By
limiting the prevelence of the signifier, you tightly control the
circumstances by which the sign becomes defined in the minds of
men. Therefore, you can constrain the typology of mindforms that
result from exposure to the signifier. This is the power of the
occult: it is power derived from the unseen. This power allows you
strongly and deftfully cultivate the semiotic mappings in the mind.

<a name="semiotics-in-branding-and-marketing" />

### [Semiotics in Branding and Marketing](#semiotics-in-branding-and-marketing)

Signs can be used to brand an experience or brand a memory. Semiotics
is incredibly powerful for branding or marketing agencies to
understand, especially when these agencies understand or can
manipulate/coordinate the dynamics/evolution of semiotics in the
markets they develop advertisements for. Ultimately, advertising is
simply paying others to influence informational mappings in the minds
of consumers and it's expensive. It's even more expensive to change
once established.

<a name="dynamical-state-machines-with-ergodic-stabilization-of-metastates" />

### [Dynamical State Machines with Ergodic Stabilization of Metastates](#dynamical-state-machines-with-ergodic-stabilization-of-metastates)

I've been working on a theory of metanomics, which describes any
genomic system in terms of a probabilistically
[dynamical](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamical_system)
state-machine which transitions between various metastates with
[ergodic](#) stablization. The true power of this paradigm for genomics is
that it extends to the human mind. It is incredibly useful for
artificial intelligence, but also for modeling, quantifying and
predicting psychosocial cultural dynamics. In magnitude, it is the
equivalent to Einstein's insights into relativity, but for genomics,
cognition and the human mind ... *not that anyone will ever give me a
fuck'n opportunity in this world.*

#### Imagine a dynamical system like this, but one capable of evolving to different metastates based on system behavior and capable of containerizing subsystems and state changes within regular structures like cells or nuclei.

![Ergodic Stabalization](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/ergodic-system.gif)

#### Drafts for my comprehensive theory of metanomics (These links may break)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;[Intro](https://github.com/dcunited001/dcunited001.github.io/blob/sources/_drafts/metanomics-intro.md)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;[Spatially Distributed State](https://github.com/dcunited001/dcunited001.github.io/blob/sources/_drafts/metanomics-spatially-distributed-state.md)

#### &#x2605;&nbsp;[Metaprogramming in Metanomics](https://github.com/dcunited001/dcunited001.github.io/blob/sources/_drafts/metanomics-metaprogramming.md)

The insights garnered from this perspective are beautiful. The inner
workings of genomics and the human mind begin to come into focus and
everything makes sense. You develop a greater appreciation for God's
work in the world. These dynamical state-machines can be designed like
programs and they operate autonomously. It is a completely novel
paradigm for programming. In genomics, much work as been done to put
forth to develop models which stand alongside this paradigm, but none
are completely able capture the behavior of all units and subunits of
the system.

Yes, there are similar theories in genomics and AI, but AFAIK no
paradigm of genomic programming truly accounts for the importance of
containerized, spatially-distributed state and the emergence of
metastates in an autonomous, probabilistic system.

<a name="the-metasign-symmetry-is-the-most-universal-sign" />

### [The Metasign Symmetry is the Most Universal Sign](#the-metasign-symmetry-is-the-most-universal-sign)

Is there a most powerful sign in semiotics, as mapped within humanity?
Yes, but it's not the instantiation of a sign. It is a higher-order
metasign. It is symmetry and this is the Origin of Semiotics. Again,
this implies origin in the cartesian sense as well Beginning. This
origin in the "space" of semiotics also has connections to abstract
algebra, number theory, galois theory, category theory and it is the
unifying center of everything.

I'm studying some of the following video. I hope it will demonstrate a
strong connection between the concept of origin in Number Theory,
symmetry and analytic combinatorics. The video is from the
[Institute for Advanced Study](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC8aRaZ6_0weiS50pvCmo0pw):
[The Symmetry and Simplicity of the Laws of Nature and the Higgs Boson](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQF7kkWjVWM). If
you're into watching endless lectures on advanced mathematics as
applied, then the
[Simons Institute](https://www.youtube.com/user/SimonsInstitute) is an
unparalleled resource. I haven't found a better mathematics
self-education resource online.

<a name="the-shepherd-a-universal-sign" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([The Shepherd, a Universal Sign](#the-shepherd-a-universal-sign))

One thing that oneironauts must respect are other shepherds and their
flocks, within and outside of oneirontology. We must respect other
traditions, being especially careful not to pull their sheep away. We
are a tradition whose missions include restoring general religious
faith in humanity. It will not help us to pull others away from other
traditions. It will only hurt us. We want to work to restore the
perceived value of religion and doing so does not require evangelism.
We are non-evangelistic and this tradition will not work for many
people.

<a name="jesus-was-a-shepherd-of-men" />

### [Jesus Was a Shepherd of Men](#jesus-was-a-shepherd-of-men)

The shepherd is sign recognized by many religions. Jesus was a
carpenter, but also a shepherd of men. The shepherd was a well known
through out the middle east and other adjacent areas. Especially in
Judeo-Christian traditions, the shepherd forms the basis of a partial
pattern language, whereby the shepherd and the sheep in his flock
become signs used to figuratively convey meaning that simple words
cannot. Using metaphor enables the belief system to tightly couple
itself to the core of the minds of followers in a way that pure
rationalism and logic cannot.

The symbol of the shepherd is one that was universally recognized by
everyone during the time of the Buddha and Jesus. As a
widely-recognized sign, the shepherd was a humble role in society,
where one person was entrusted with ensuring the safety and vitality
of a flock. I imagine that, in most cases, this livestock was an asset
that belonged to someone else.

A shepherd might operate differently in various regions, but many
aspects of their responsibilities and livelihood that were shared by
all cultures with agriculture & livestock. These include nearly all
cultures across the globe. Therefore, by piggybacking on this sign and
employing teachings to develop a specific understanding of the
semiotics of a shepherd in the mind of followers, one guarentees their
movement further means of universal appeal.

Regardless of the region, there are many shared traits of character
and common facets to their experience. A shepherd tends to animals &
livestock. A shepherd must fend off threats to the livestock. A
shepherd can manage his flock to feed it well or feed it poorly. In
the longterm, this can lead to a healthy flock or one that is
malnourished. Today, the shepherd is also a well known symbol in
several major world religions. It's present in Judaism, in
Christianity, in Buddhism, in Islam, and to a limited degree in
Zoroastrianism. Why? Because all religions have, intentionally or not,
piggybacked on these semiotic mappings to increase the penertrability
and relevance of their content to potential followers.

<a name="the-shepherd-bodhisattva-in-mahayana-buddhism" />

### [The Shepherd Bodhisattva in Mahayana Buddhism](#the-shepherd-bodhisattva-in-mahayana-buddhism)

In Mahayana Buddhism, there are three degrees of
[bodhisattva](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bodhisattva), depending on
how their actions express their beliefs. There is the king, who
strives for buddhahood as soon as possible as a means of
self-empowerment to help others. There is the ferryman, who strives
for buddhahood, along with other sentient beings. The boatman helps
watch over and guide their shared voyage, ensure that his fellow
beings reach the other side. There is the shepherd, who strives for
buddhahood, but only after all other sentient beings have acheived
buddhahood first. The shepherd returns to the battlefield to find a
new flock, lifetime after lifetime, all-but-permanently forgoing
escape from the cycle of rebirth.

The shepherd is the "highest" bodhisattva, who has vowed remain behind
for the longest time and make the greatest personal sacrifices.  The
shepherd bodhisattva essentially sacrifices their own personal
attainment of buddhahood through countless lives of reincarnation.

The symbol of the shepherd is one that appears in at least four major
religions. It's not a coincidence. The sign of the shepherd is used as
a basis for pattern languages, which is fueled by its universal appeal
and consistent semiotic mapping.

<a name="semiotics-of-mythology" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Semiotics of Mythology](#semiotics-of-mythology))

If you plan on architecting mythology for your own megalomaniacal
attempt at birthing a religious movement, then dissecting the
semiotics of the human condition is invaluable. Only if you truly
understand semiotics *before* you attempt to create a religion does it
ever have the hope of transcending the test of time. It is only by
overlaying your belief system on top of a collection of signs
temporally and geographically invariant to the human condition that it
will ever stand a chance. You must architect your myths by
interleaving them with this most foundational map of semiotics: the
astral plane.

> Check out
> [this draft](https://github.com/dcunited001/dcunited001.github.io/blob/sources/_drafts/5000bc-reincarnation.md)
> on reincarnation and the astral plane if you want to know more about
> Oneirontology's understanding of reincarnation.

<a name="tilings-on-the-astral-plane" />

### [Tilings on the Astral Plane](#tilings-on-the-astral-plane)

How do you know what symbols to choose? Generally, universal
recognition trumps everything else, but there are many universally
relevant signs to weave into.

#### Some Examples: Water, Food, Sleep, Hunger, Greed

Emergent properties from Oneirontology's definition of the Astral
Plane should lead to antipatterns and design patterns for belief
systems. Oneirontology is searching for highly resonoant consciousness
crystallization.

#### Tilings of Polyhedra in Two Dimensions

![Tilings in 2D](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/2D-tilings.png)

Quantifiable emergent properties of dimensionality are incredibly
interesting. For example, the number of
[Euclidean tilings by convex regular polygons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_tilings_by_convex_regular_polygons)
in 2D or 3D. These are metaphysically derived properties, constant and
wholly emergent from mathematical primatives. Other interesting
constant and emergent properties arising from the intrinsic nature of
space and crystals include
[space groups](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_group),
[lattice systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystal_system),
[wallpaper groups](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallpaper_group) and
[crystallographic point groups](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crystallographic_point_group).

What are the best ways to tile these ideas in people's heads? Is it
advantageous to desire a consistent typology in your followers' forms
of belief? Or do you want the prevelance of belief-forms to varied and
sporadic? There is a continuum between both. What signs and phrases
key are indicative of specific belief-forms? How does one structure
religious writings and practices to evoke and reinforce specific types
of belief-forms? This problem is important because viable belief
systems require degrees of heterogeneity in belief-forms. A completely
homogenous distribution of belief-forms within followers would fail.

<a name="and-then-jesus-turned-the-water-into-wine" />

### [And Then Jesus Turned the Water into Wine...](#and-then-jesus-turned-the-water-into-wine)

My apologies for the religious quote out of context, but there is
great power in religion's ability to shape the minds of believers and
to disregard this is to disempower oneself while disregarding
psychology and sociology.

#### [Psalm 42:1](http://biblehub.com/psalms/42-1.htm)

> As the deer pants for the water brooks, so pants my soul for You, O
> God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God.

When Christianty and Judaism blur the spiritual and physical
definitions of hunger, this is an excellent example of semiotic
remapping of universal concepts. Christianity gained significant
popularity at a time when poverty, hunger and the like were rampant,
especially among outcasts and pariahs. When missionaries brought
Christianity to a new land, the people most interested were outcasts
and pariahs. The downtrodden see something in Christianity that
resonates with them.

This is a great example of semiotic remapping and one that enabled the
outcast Christians of the early Church to swell with pride at the
sacrifices they made for their belief system. Replacing physical
hunger for spiritual hunger piggybacks on the universally relevant
condition of hunger. It made the early Church more likely to tolerate
the hard times. Instead of being disrupted by group suffering, they
used it as a means to become close.  Therefore, the information that
underlies the belief system must alter the believer's understanding of
signs such that negativity is transmuted into positivity.

It is unfortunate that nascent religious movements are always tempered
by suffering. One might consider widespread suffering amongst early
believers an injudiciously necessary alchemical cost to congealing a
religion and tempering its steel. The movements that manage to survive
this galvanization process will certainly stand the test of time for
centuries.

> I am so worried about the people who may follow me down this
> path. What drives me to move forward is that, in case I may be
> incapacitated in some way, my followers or humanity itself may have
> something left behind that ameliorates their suffering by giving
> them power through knowledge. I do not know anyone else who could
> ever attain the position in life that I have. Though people may
> accuse me of selfishly squandering what was given to me, no one can
> say that I did not try to stand up for those not fortified by
> posturing through circumstance. There are those in situations like
> mine who will *never* have the capacity to stand up and I want to
> ensure that I exact justice such that no one will ever fucking think
> twice about doing this again. I will do so peacefully and I do not
> care what it costs. As far as I can see, God is at my side, along
> with the entire world, because I cannot comprehend how I am capable
> of this.

A warning: there is much harm that can be done through semiotic
remapping. Since it is so unpredictable and the requisite experience
is almost always insufficient, great harm often accompanies even the
most beneficent intentions. This is a curse of both knowledge and the
illusion of control.

<a name="cultural-universals-are-semiotic-binding-points" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Cultural Universals Are Semiotic Binding Points](#semiotic-binding-points-in-the-human-condition))

There is a list of about one hundred universally shared traits. These
[cultural universals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cultural_universal)
are traits constantly available across the human condition. Though
their specific mappings are not geographically invariant, their
availability as mappable signifiers is universal.

There is varied degree to universal recognition. To some extent, you
want those symbols to be more relevant to your own culture than to
others. That is, this game is a bit like Othello, where you may find
your pieces turned against you if you are not careful. We essentially
all share the same set of pieces. Universally relevant symbols are
useful in that they are marketable and brandable, but that trade-off
is balanced by incidentally acting as additional surface area for
cultural subversion.

#### Shakespeare Wrote a Play About My Life...

![Yes, another picture of Othello](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/othello.jpg)

#### But I Didn't Like The Ending (â¯&deg;â¡&deg;)â¯ï¸µ â»ââ») ... I kid, I kid

<a name="this-most-monumental-task-of-social-engineering" />

### [This Most Monumental Task of Social Engineering](#this-most-monumental-task-of-social-engineering)

Which symbols will most resist semiotic change over time? That is, for
both change in signifier and the mapped signified concept. These are
the semiotic mappings that you can count on remaining consistent for
hundreds or thousands of years. This is especially interesting, in the
wake of the Singularity. It's a paradigm shift unlike any other that
blurs even the most constant ideals of the human condition: identity,
time, knowledge itself, and our collective identity in the face of
transhumanism. It is this precarious cultural precipice that
necessitates a new belief system.

#### Do You Really Want This Power? Does Anyone?

![Frozen Flame](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/frozen-flame.png)

Who can be trusted with this most monumental task of social
engineering? Does every sufficiently advanced civilization discover
what is essentially the same solution to the singularity?

<a name="almos-everes-but-never-high-enough" />

### [Almos' Everes' But Never High Enough](#almos-everes-but-never-high-enough)

Knowledge is power, but the gusts at this stormy pinnacle of human
civilization will render us flailing in need of a belief system to
grapple onto hope. Our fate is uncertain like the solution to Fermi's
paradox. I believe that there are multiple answers to the paradox, but
that the positive solution to the paradox involves "dark"
technology. That is, every civilization that successfully ascends does
so with only a brief, centuries-long flash of electromagnetic
radiation. Still, the dangers of technological ascent are real.

<a name="you-havent-even-seen-our-final-form" />

### [You Haven't Even Seen Our Final Form](#you-havent-even-seen-our-final-form)

![Castle of Ahhhhhhhh](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/the-castle-of-ahhhhhhhh.png)

The nature of the Singularity's changes are particularly important: is
humanity embarking on a final transformation or is this a final
transformation into a state of neverending exponential change? The
answer to this question is particularly important for designing a
belief system. If the answer is the latter option, it will prove an
unfathomablely complex challenge. In this case, it's even moreso
important to nail down the points which never change, measuring their
degree of unwaveringness. Only then could one hope to design a belief
system to last a millenia after a transition into the perfect storm of
cultural flux.

What systems of symbols will resist change in this final season of
constant change? What notions of identity are constant in a world
where the notion of hivemind becomes reality? What belief system gives
people hope when privacy becomes a fantasy? The Singularity, the idea
itself, is a powerful motivating force. A la
[Roko's Basilisk](http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Roko's_basilisk), it is
the idea whence power is derived.

<a name="a-stellar-tale-of-might-and-magic" />

### [A Stellar Tale of Might and Magic](#a-stellar-tale-of-might-and-magic)

In pursuit of understanding how humanity must prepare for the
Singularity, Ragnarok presents itself as a steller example of cultural
bundling and compression. Ancient people were hardly as ignorant as
Westerners and atheists are led to believe early in life. Being imbued
with the perception that all who came before us were helplessly
ignorant is by design. This is so that society swells with pride at
present accomplishments, moves unquestioningly forwards and never
apologizes for the past: they were ignorant. Who knew?

#### "Oh look, there's some lovely dirt over here..."

![Absolutely Marvelous Dirt](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/monty-python-lovely-dirt.jpg)

#### General warning in life => everyone is smart in their own way...

Our forefathers understood that once the majority of the world were
literate, history would become set in stone in an unprecedented
way. The understood how to operate in aeternal shadow without written
language, something the far majority of people cannot comprehend
today. But, because of the nature of information in the ancient world,
our progenitors were very familiar with networking problems like the
Byzantine Generals, though not in name. These problems are all about
logistics, cost-savings in absence of information, and the minimizing
the costs of failure when they are expensive. The solutions this
problem are
[Paxos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_(computer_science)) and
[RAFT](https://raft.github.io/).

<a name="ancient-communication-protocols-and-autonomous-directives" />

### [Ancient Communication Protocols and Autonomous Directives](#ancient-communication-protocols-and-autonomous-directives)

The
[Byzantine Generals](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_fault_tolerance#Byzantine_failures)
problem is from the 20th century, but despite the name, the qualities
of this and other networking solutions would be moreso valuable for
societies that did not enjoy high-bandwidth communications. Therefore,
they would be more familiar with architecting communication protocols
and imbuing knowledge of directive-oriented solutions into their myth
and magick, so that these tools would be hidden, but could be
retrieved by subsequent generations. Therefore, distancing oneself
from religion on the basis of rationalism and religions' logical
fallibility is disempowering. You are being deceived. Being able to
relieve oneself and one's mind of the constraints of their present
epoch provides invaluable insight into the nature of reality and
history, especially when such has been shielded from view.

Almost every human need, desire, norm and the perception of thus will
change unrecognizably in forthcoming decades. These will diversify
exponentially more than they have via modernism and post-modernism.
How do we decide what to preserve? How do we preserve it in such a way
that is robust and resists the potential for abuse of religion? In
alignment with the values of humanism?

Theology PhD's have written dissertations on this and similar
topics. Studying apocalyptic myth like Ragnarok is eschatology, but
there's probably a more specific label for this specific study of
design principles in eschatology and religion. What interests me most
is the precise information compression in eschatological works. How
did these people know to lay down their words in such a manner that
would encode the set of beliefs to be reactivated, while enabling the
belief system to persist until then?

<a name="metrics-of-semiotics" />

# &#x03BB;&nbsp;&#x2665;&nbsp;([Metrics of Semiotics](#metrics-of-semiotics))

Semiotics and semantics form the basis of a Universal loom upon which
all thoughts and ideas are interleaved. Semiotic graphs can emerge
from linguistic analysis of communication. To hope to reach any
authentic insights, one needs to analyze more than text because many
concepts are hidden from purely literate communication.

<a name="the-mind-has-its-own-curse-of-dimensionality-language" />

### [The Mind Has Its Own Curse of Dimensionality: Language](#the-mind-has-its-own-curse-of-dimensionality-language)

To enumerate a list of mappable morphemes and underlying signifiers, a
great start is the top 500 words to learn first in any language.
Nearly everone's mind is tightly coupled to language because most of
us never break the mold of thinking in the language we were raised
with. It's fascinating to think that we're all trapped in our minds
and bodies, but most of us never truly learn to use them. To become
familiar with this list of 500 concepts and, to force your mind to
escape its binding to language, one can study sign language while
simultaneously learning a new language. This forces the mind to wedge
an abstraction between language and cognition. Just sign the morphemes
along with verbalization of the words as you're learning. It's
difficult to quantify, but if you can do this and you speak three
languages, your IQ just jumped 20 points. Some of the most interesting
tangents in linguistics involve sign language.

#### HIS POWER LEVEL IS OVER 200!!! (not...)

What is the solution to the
[Curse of Dimensionality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curse_of_dimensionality)?
Does it have something to do with parameterization?

<a name="quantification-of-semiotics-for-statistical-methods" />

### [Quantification of Semiotics for Statistical Methods](#quantification-of-semiotics-for-statistical-methods)

There's a law of statistics that shows up everywhere: linguistics, the
size of population, network theory, etc. Distributions in nature tend
to adapt themselves to this ideal Zipf distribution. Like phi and the
golden ratio, it's not entirely magic, but the distribution emerges in
many circumstances because of something inplicit in their
behavior.

Another interesting question relating to Zipf and linguistics is how
grammatical structures and availability of function words changes the
sequence and emergence of morphemes in each language's Zipf's
distribution. For example, Japanese lacks plurals and many function
words, the necessity of which is unquestionable in English. So, how
does this affect the emergence of morphemes in Zipf's
distribution. This is the stuff that humanities grant applications and
PhD theses are made of.

> "But I have less than $2 to my name. What do I know?" - David
> Conner, the almost-homeless-but-not-quite philosopher

An underlying question pitched in this article: what can be crossed
over from Zipf's Distribution to the study of semiotics and cultural
universals? Specifically, if such a tool exists, what is it's utility
for creating a religion? How would Oneirontology use it? Is there a
single optimal way to use it?

#### Zipf's Distribution on Wikipedia Articles Written in English

<a name="zipfs-distribution-and-semiotics" />

![Zipf's Distribution](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/zipf-wiki.png)

### [Zipf's Distribution And Semiotics](#zipfs-distribution-and-semiotics)

As one recursively iterates through the infinite process of
discovering more a foundational universal graphs of semiotics,
understanding how and why Zipf's law emerges should help constrain and
predict the actual structure. For example, if there are missing nodes
for aspects of culture humanity is too young to have discovered, their
absence should be inferrable from analysis based on Zipf's
distribution. This recursive process itself has a representable
structure and it should emerge within this "graph of everything." If
so, it's location in the graph of everything should be particularly
important.

#### Ummm, What Is "Representation Theory" ...? I Wish I Knew Who To Ask

![Representation Theory](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/representation-theory.jpg)

Of particular interest to myself is understanding representation of
random graphs on some universal basis. These aren't the ideas that
people without college degrees usually stumble on, *especially in
tightly controlled isolation*. For an example of
a study in this domain, see
[Hierarchical random graph representation of handwritten characters and its application to Hangul recognition](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0031-3203(99)00222-8)

<a name="interlingual-semantic-dissonances" />

### [Interlingual Semantic Dissonance](#interlingual-semantic-dissonances)

The graph below shows dissonance between semantic concepts in English
and Chinese. As your analysis accomodates more languages, there should
be nested graphs that emerge via recursive convergence. These should
allow you to approach the asymptotically distant, foundational graph for
humanity's semiotic mappings.

![Semantic Dissonance between English and Chinese](/img/posts/2017-02-14-oneirontology-engineering-cultural-touchstones-for-mythos/semantics-graph.png)

<a name="humanitys-semiotic-graph-converges-towards-the-universal-semiotic-graph" />

### [Humanity's Semiotic Graph Converges Towards the Universal Semiotic Graph](#humanitys-semiotic-graph-converges-towards-the-universal-semiotic-graph)

Humanity's semiotic graph can not account for all concepts, as many
are still undeveloped. Therefore we should have a partial graph which
can be mapped to the universe's own foundational semiotic map. This
convergence towards a *universal* semiotic graph is described in April
2016's Polymath Post of the Year That No One Fuck'n Read:
[The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language](/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html). This
post pitches slightly less than novel idea for a universal language
that maps this universal semiotic network to mathematic primitives
form graph theory and category, forming the basis for a language
undoubted used by space aliens to communicate over vast distances
without the need for a protocol to define semantics. The semantics
would instead be implicit in mathematic primitives. My total annual
salary in 2016: $400 ... go figure.

> "*AMERICA!* Red Robin, heart disease and NASCAR! Fuck 'em free
> thinkin' frilly philosopher types."

#### Under Constant Threat of Asylum (and not the kind for political refugees)

> I remember being threatened by being sent to a mental institution
> the morning I tried to publish the article on universal
> language. It's a common theme in my life, along with constant
> disruption of productivity via good ole' fashioned NSA surveillance
> and an NSA-augmented
> [*COINTELPRO*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/COINTELPRO#See_also) on
> steroids.

> That's real cool, y'all. In response, I've learned to publish early
> and publish often. I have uploaded nearly everything I have written
> to Github, just in case. You have no idea how much satisfaction it
> brings me to write because I noticed that I finally got under
> *Their* skin, whoever *They* are.

#### *AMERICA FIRST?* Wut Economics

> "America! Got a friend that thinks too hard?! Neurologically castrate
> them. Don't talk to them. Knowledge is contagious. It's a disease
> and you could get sick!" - The paradigm that powers American-led
> innovation in the 21st century economy.... or a subversive
> neo-Bolshevik attempt to sabotage the American economy.

That's all for now. The third section of Oneirontology's unveiling
discusses specific cultural universals' utility for the architecture
of mythos.
