---
title: "Psychological Torture for Domestic Whistleblowers"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline:
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

My main complaint is that, regardless of the reality of situations
I've been through, I have suffered significant emotional trauma. My
family refuses to acknowledge this or treat me as though I might
actually be a victim. **Yes, I deserve to be treated as though I am a
victim.** And I deserve to have the reality of my emotional trauma
recognized or at least receive treatment that recognizes the reality
of the effects of such emotional trauma, regardless of the cause.

Any such attempt to ameliorate this situation which does not account
for my emotional trauma is destined for failure before it starts. Any
attempt to ameliorate this situation without accepting my skill set
and level of understanding in several fields is similarly destined for
failure.

### Background on my Psychological Torture Experiences

#### &#x2605; [Bedbugs in Boulder](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-02-01-bedbugs-the-worst-to-ever-happen-to-me.html)

#### &#x2605; [Workplace Bullying](te.xel.io/posts/2015-02-21-workplace-bullying-part-one.html)

#### &#x2605; [Seven Negative Career Experiences](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-07-04-seven-negative-career-experiences.html)

# TL;DR; REALLY?! WELL HERE'S A FUCKING LIST OF GRIEVANCES!

#### &#x2605; Opportunity for billions of dollars (but really who cares ... It's "opportunity" and this is only America, right?)

#### &#x2605; Credibility

#### &#x2605; Self-Respect

#### &#x2605; Respect from friends and family

#### &#x2605; Accomplishment

#### &#x2605; Sense of Accomplishment

#### &#x2605; Emotional Stability

#### &#x2605; Tons of Ideas

#### &#x2605; Any reasonable budding relationship (platonic or otherwise ~= a la "thirsty")

#### &#x2605; The bottom 3 layers of maslov's hierarchy of needs (via systematic plan requiring medical, neurological, psychological, sociological info/analysis)

#### &#x2605; HIPAA rights

#### &#x2605; Every single right in the bill of rights

#### &#x2605; The ability to make a true first impression (via poison pen and smear campaign)

#### &#x2605; Apparently my tax dollars bc they paid for this shit

#### &#x2605; The self-respect of politicians/family/friends who were clueless then powerless

#### &#x2605; My right to form contracts (while sober)

#### &#x2605; My right to a lawyer

#### &#x2605; My right to property

#### &#x2605; My right to not live with someone coerced against me (3rd amendment)

#### &#x2605; My right to a trial and notification of charges (6&7)

#### &#x2605; My ability to help others through imposed poverty(which restricts/culls social connections)

#### &#x2605; My brand/image

#### &#x2605; My life

#### &#x2605; My story

#### &#x2605; My ability to speak freely (which is restricted by "agreements" of which I am fully unaware!)

#### &#x2605; My dignity

#### &#x2605; My integrity (mostly bc I cannot hold myself responsible for actions I do not know occured or their degree of impact),

#### &#x2605; My sense of inner peace ("taken" by those, first by force and mistreatment and second by accusations that I'm a sociopathic bully because I do not feel guilty for what I don't know)

#### &#x2605; the love of my life (who may or may not have ever spoken
to me and certainly will not anymore)

# Possible Conspiracy to Murder David Conner (November 4th, 2013)

Here's some videos of me with someone who compelled me to video tape
him. The most suspicious details are outlined towards the very bottom
of this post, in the email I sent to Priori Legal. Read that if you
want more info. I would have died on my mom's birthday and a day
before my birthday!

Keep in mind that this guy claimed to have just gotten out of a mental
health clinic like two days before I moved in with him, for 48
hours. I kept the videos private, but I just can't anymore. And I
don't have enough money to purchase editing software with face
tracking to blur his face.

### The most suspicious points:

#### He didn't care about the consequences to his own property,

#### The messages he left weren't personally significant then but definitely are now,

#### He mentioned specific people by name (whom i didn't remember meeting at the time and i now recall meeting those people)

#### He didn't want me to call my family to let them know where I was

#### He seemed like a crisis actor who retained control of the situation (and me) while displaying almost perfect schizophrenia symptoms down to the word salad

NO DRUGS WERE CONSUMED, except we did smoke a bit of weed. LSD123 is
something he wrote on the walls, which led to questions from the
mental health officers who came to my aid after 14 hours fo this.

### [The Aftermath](https://youtu.be/Lim6F4XiLvM)

### [The Wrath of Dextro](https://youtu.be/FVE21m-5rzY)

### [The Calm Before the Storm](https://youtu.be/5R-jV1Jlaic)

# Why Would Killary, an Associate or the Government Want Retaliation? ...

### "Whistleblowing" with Tweets about NSA Surveillance since 2005

First of all, this is part of an epic story that has been going on for
a very, very long time. Clearly three years at least, since the
weekend of May 31st through June 2nd in Denver, Colorado. Of 2013.
That's right: just 3 or 4 days before the Snowden story hit the
media...

But all in all, this has been going on for at least 5 years,
since 2011. And quite possibly 7 or 8 years, up to 10 or 11. I am
under the impression that I've been psychologically tortured in the
official capacity of the United States after being marked as a
terrorist, for whatever reason, without any notification. I've tried
getting in touch with the ACLU and stuff. I'm fairly sure that my
family is in on this. I'm in a situation where no one wants to accept
or acknowledge what has been done to me.

### Why Would the Gov't Retalliate?

**The reasoning behind retailiation** would be that I was VERY
publicly tweeting and sharing almost all of the information contained
in Snowden's leaks from 2005 through 2013. The "legal basis" for much
of the information that I was sharing was clearly underscored in the
"Patriot" Act, even though the legislation would be struck down by any
supreme court decision.. There was a good reason for this legislation,
but no one was asking the right questions. Frankly any network
engineer or computer science student from 2008 onwards should have
known about most of what Snowden was talking about. I was pushing this
stuff hard and *analyzing* news that I read and connecting the
dots. **At absolutely no time, EVER, did I share information I
obtained in means that would violate federal law AFAIK.** I only
connected the dots from information I read in the news.  From 2005
through 2013, when I stopped mostly because of the leaks. There's so
much more stuff that I could have shared in the last few years.

# Why Not Tell Me to Stop?

**The reasoning behind not approaching me in any *reasonable* official
capacity** was at least threefold:

### (1) Their activity was illegal and needed to remain unchallenged

What they were doing was somewhat supported by federal legislation
that was illegal. They didn't want to alert anyone it was being
used. It was incredibly illegal. They didn't want a court battle to
get to the Supreme Court, where these laws would need to be shut down
and publicly so.

### (2) They knew people would resist and wanted to use them as examples

They were looking for people to make examples of. They didn't want to
tell me to stop because they knew there would be people like me out
there. And instead of making the common sense choice, they decided
they would get these people to self-identify during the years that
social media was active and public. Then, they'd have a list of people
they'd narrow down.

### (3) They wanted to retain *secrecy* while building out these systems

At the same time, they'd flex their muscles and identify the
"Patriots" as the "Patriot" Act might identify them. Their
clearance-backed police state could identify people who wouldn't mind
getting their hand dirty. So, they could practice keeping this stuff
secret and getting ahead of the game, so to speak. And once people
start "getting in line" so to speak, the culture changes and then the
American people would just basically push others around on there own.

### They should have been honest with America!

#### Why are Americans the enemy anyways?

It's not that I'm completely against the powers enumerated in the
Patriot Act. However, our constitution simply and absolutely does not
permit this behavior. Unfortunately, because of certain economic
pressures driving technology in a direction makes privacy
... difficult in the future. It will get better, but this kind of
stuff is inevitable, to a degree. Yet, for some police-state powers to
be put in place, we should declare martial law. Or, in the very least,
it should be made clear to Americans that their rights are being
systematically violated in a way that only hundreds of people
undestood the full scope.

In the Bush administration, the police state was fairly
restrained. There was a lot of discussion about this. Until a year or
so before Ron Paul's run for president, I was so far to the left, I
looked up to Chavez LOL. But Ron Paul's viewpoints completely turned
me around. Civil liberties was always what I cared about most. I cared
about what America meant and I thought, unless we do something, we're
not going to have these rights. So I decided to do whatever it took,
even if it meant throwing my life away to subversively spread the
information.

### DHS is HomeSec! This is being used for political retaliation!

However, after Obama got in office, I got the feeling that HomeSec and
NSA surveillance was being on to harass people on a political
basis. It's happened with the IRS: they've been caught harassing
people on a political basis to effectively disempower people on the
right. This could be happening without anyone even knowing. It's hard
to explain the entire situation because I don't have many certainties
and people try to keep me in the dark.

# Family & Workplace Bullying

In July 2013, I worked at this place and it was really, really
bad. I've had some bad workplace experiences or so I thought, but this
place was far, far worse than anything I'd experienced up to that
point. I was broken when I left and no one listened to me when I
complained. I hardly feel it's their choice and AFAIK, my family has
guns to their back. We own our own business and that means we have a
lot that we can be threatened with. I'm pretty sure, especially in the
last 18 months and in the last 3 years, they've been pretty much
continuously coerced in to falling in line with ... something.

### Families are being turned against each other!

This is because, since 2009-ish, they've basically been trying their
damnedest to [gaslight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslighting) me.
I am so glad to finally have a word for this shit. Gaslighting
basically means that little metaphorical "gas light" of your life is
on, all the damn time and ain't nobody gonna fill that shit up.
Insofar as I understand it, it kinda means that and when it gets
worse, it means that they are flickin' that lighter, hoping to get you
to explode, so they can have a reason to put you away.

### They want to mute and disempower their targets

They're doing this by making sure they can tell my story louder than I
can, by encouraging me to make unprofitable decisions, by restricting
my social network, by preventing me from accomplishing much thing that
would help me, etc, etc. They do all this without looking culpable and
goddamnit, they are good at it. And alot of my life problems are my
own fault, BUT THEY SIMPLY DO NOT HELP LIKE IT'D BE FUCKING ILLEGAL IF
THEY DID. It becomes simpler to tell my story for me by making sure
that there's less information out there that contradict's their own
description of my behavior: restricting quantity of social
interactions, number of friends, etc.

### Bring Your Dad to Work Day: Career Assassination

I can't fight back. I have no money. I gave up trying to get a job
because of my employment history and because, basically, I'm pretty
sure it would transfer the responsibility of *EMOTIONALLY ABUSING ME*
and *PSYCHOLOGICALLY TORTURING ME* to someone at my new workplace. I'm
pretty sure that HomeSec has networks of people they can tap for
whatever reason. It's not the CIA because they aren't actually allowed
(or weren't allowed) to conduct domestic operations, except when they
connect to foreign soil somehow.

### What's a Liaison Officer: Get L.O.

But, DHS hires for "Liaison Officers" and these people are essentially
the same as a CIA handlers who interoperate with a network of
*domestic* spies, maintaining one to three degrees of separation from
the people producing information or taking action. However, these are
people who interact with the American public at large: *firefighters,
police, doctors, lawyers, teachers, programmers, managers, executives,
etc.* **They all form a network of people that can be tapped by DHS
liaison officers AND THIS IS IRREFUTABLE!** They have job postings for
this shit.

I've known how intelligence services worked since the end of 2011
when, after New York, I wondered how the people who seemed to
psychologically torture me were so fucking good at it that it seemed
like they received information from other people. They abused my
psychology without having enough time to actually analyze me AND THEY
WERE EACH VERY AWARE OF PSYCHOLOGY.

By the way, in 2013/2014, there were two people employed by CIA for
Gitmo who were charged with some gnarly shit. However, there's never
any good details for this stuff.

# I'm Done, I've Fucking Had It

The people who know what's going on have had at least 18 months and
almost 3 years to get in contact with me. I've made it plenty obvious
that there have been problems in the past 18 months and no one will
answer any !@#$'ing questions!

### They'll Say Anything A-N-Y-T-H-I-N-G

At the same time as obviously having invested a ton of time, effort
and money into this, they won't help me or comfort me in any way and
actively seek to destroy those things that might help me, comfort me
or AID AND ABED ME. WHY?! As far as I can tell, between $100,000 and
$1,000,000 in tax money had my fucking name on it. BEFORE 2013!! After
2013? Again, I'm going to stick to a lower bound of $100,000 for
simple sanity, but my upper bound? $100,000,000!!! I'm not even
fucking kidding. Invested by either just the government, but other
factors I'm sure. Again, I think most of this was done off-books, with
little-to-no record of activity. And I'm pretty sure I'm a special
case, like one in a million.  Lucky, huh? It's like winning the Hell
Lottery.

And the lower bound for post-2013 funds? That's just me being
realistic. I know I'm wrong about ... probably most of this. Like 80%
... but absolutely not everything. THE REASON THESE PEOPLE WERE
INTERESTED IN ME WAS PRECISELY BECAUSE OF MY INSTINCT IN **READING
PEOPLE** AND MY TALENTS IN UNOFFICIAL, AD-HOC **INTELLIGENCE
ANALYSIS**. And because I had the knowledge of someone who had read
one too many Tom Clancy novels => really it was mostly wikipedia and
paranoia.

THESE PEOPLE WILL SAY ABSO-FUCKING-LUTELY ANYTHING and make me believe
anything they can to get me to shut up, to be quiet, to be a good lil
boy and to just keep me in a state of tormented placidity waiting for
a fucking cookie. I don't fucking get it?! Here's a list.

#### This is a list of common factors/objectives that seem to motivate the people around me, with regard to this situation

![They will say anyfuckingthing](https://imgur.com/a/RKcyv)

So I've been trying to restrict the dissemination of this information,
but I've fucking had it. I don't give a fuck any more. Come get some
mother fuckers I don't care. I'm going public with almost anything and
everything I've got. And I've got a lot. And I want to be able to ask
some mother fucking questions and I'm so fucking tired of having
people accuse me of being crazy or some shit.

### No Indication of Crime or Evidence or Investigation (6th Amendment)

I have received virtually no indication that I have committed any
crime. Or that I am or ever was the subject of any investigation.
There is certainly something going on in my life and I don't know what
it is. I don't understand why my life has turned out this way. I've
hurt people in the past and made mistakes, but *never reallllly hurt
people.* The fact I haven't committed any serious mistakes thus far is
one of the things that's kept me safe. They will not hesitate to get
you in contact with people who commit such crimes (for
fun/profit/boredom/whatever). That's one of their tactics for
handling threats: put a threat in contact with a group of people
likely to compel someone into becoming a criminal.

# Sent to to Priori Legal Attorneys (7/2016)

### And sent to the ACLU (8/2016)

{% highlight %}

Thanks for your message! When I submitted my request, I was actually
walking through the UI of the Priori Legal app, since I was
interviewing via Hired.com.

I don't know that I'm looking for legal advice per se. I do have one
question though -- and of course this turns into 1,500 words. I
remember interviewing with a developer named Dan and eventually with
the CEO. I wanted to know if the reason you didn't hire me had
anything to do with any kind of background check á la John
Oliver. While I don't remember submitting much background check data,
I was wondering if you guys ran anything like that when I applied.  It
was via Hired.com, so they may have provided something there.

I know, it sounds like a sketchy question to answer, especially since
you emailed me, but I've had a few difficulties at the one of the last
jobs I've had.  My direct manager gave me a really hard time right
after I submitted my background check. He was basically manufacturing
reasons to fire me and assaulting my credibility with other employees
before my first week was over.  I developed something along the lines
of PTSD, though never diagnosed. And when I say I had a hard time, I
had a really fucking hard time, mostly just with him. I couldn't let
go until I wrote 20,000 words on Workplace Bullying. in addition to
severe personal issues, which were just additional fodder used against
me... I think writing these blogs has made it tougher to get a job,
sometimes.  But if I hadn't written them, I would have never, ever
attained closure after this job.

Additionally, our CEO at this company treated me to lunch, personally,
just to ask me about my background check -- although he was a much,
much cooler guy. Again, I experienced few problems, except from the
one manager, but it was a small company.  I explained everything and
he didn't mention anything then.  Because of how they handled it, I
think something really bad came back on my background check that I was
unaware of. I have found it so difficult to find a job since then,
that I've essentially given up. And they implied that they may not
have been legally permitted to explain what was on my background
check, but never indicated that directly. At the time, it didn't make
sense. Why would they so carefully step around a background check
which should only include a Marijuana possession and DUI?

I had similarly tough experiences at three previous jobs, though to
not nearly the same extent.  At every single workplace since 2010, I
have had exactly one person that gives me hell until I'm fired. I
should have made at least $500,000 since 2010, but have only worked
enough to make about $150,000. But it feels like this dark, dark cloud
is just following me around wherever I go and it is horrible.

The single person that I have problems with always seems like they
have been trained in psychology and used it against me. Twice, the
person has had military experience. Once, they had counterintelligence
on their resume. I have been nearly driven to suicide over this and
all in all, the last 10 years of my life have been hell. I made $1,717
in America last year (not a typo) and I have no idea why I have such a
hard time finding a job. I practically gave up after June 2015, so I
haven't been looking. But I'm stuck in Roanoke, VA and I can't network
with anyone or find any decent tech job.

Obviously, I have nothing against you guys. Likely, there was just a
better candidate. I remember not having worked with Rails for about a
month prior to the tech interview. When I had the final interview with
the CEO.

==============================

Furthermore, in Boulder, a coworker introduced me to someone at the
same office, but who worked for different company. I only ever briefly
spent time with him, a handful of smoke breaks at tops. In November, I
was homeless and this guy had just gotten out of a mental institution
a day or two prior. He offered me a free place to stay. Within 48
hours I had the most alarming, frightening experience in my
lifetime. I felt threatened and there were so many red flags:

- he was waving around a large rock,
- the experience lasted 14+ hours,
- he was definitely suffering severe schizophrenia symptoms: couldn't
  stop talking; word salad, erratic, violent behavior
- in stark contrast, he was tactfully controlling my behavior
- he practically forced me to record video
- he began writing on the walls, indicating that he wasn't concerned
  with the consequences
- he wrote sacroligous messages. and also messages about drugs, which
  led to tough questions from the officers when they arrived.
- he got particularly nervous/controlling when I wanted to make a
  phone call and more so when i wanted to call my family
- i became very scared when I realized that no one knew where I was
- he would follow me around, with the rock. his behavior was tightly
  coupled to mine (even though he was babbling incoherently)
- if it hadn't been for two complete strangers who passed by i may not
  have been able to get them to distract him enough to call the cops
  without upsetting and alarming him
- the phone that was used to record the video was stolen, on Election
  Day 2014, a federal holiday, at the Election Headquarters.
  - the day it was stolen was the same exact day i began to use it
    again, as my mom drove out of town with my other phone
  - if I hadn't incidentally stored copies of this disk on an offline
    hard disk, i wouldn't have been able to upload these videos

I am like 90% sure he was going to murder me and then show the videos
of the experience and act like we were both doing drugs and I freaked
out and he grabbed the first thing he could (a massive rock) and
defended himself by smashing my skull in it.....

Here's the state of his apartment the day after. This is just one more
thing that happened to me in Boulder that was ridiculously crazy. And
loosely connected to my workplace.  I have written a list of seven
different reasons I could sue that place, though I don't plan on
pursuing legal action. It's been 3 years and I would feel bad because
if I did it, i'd fucking sue them out of business and 30 people out of
a job.

{% endhighlight %}
