---
title: "I'm Not Religious, I'm Spiritual: My Own Beliefs"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology religion sociology psychology"
headline: "Indispensible Foundations to Mercurial Cultural
Deconstruction"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

### Mercurial Cultural Deconstruction

As we hurtle towards relative omniscience and relative omnipotence,
isn't it important for us to discuss what makes humanity or any group
worthy of wielding this power? If the primary belief system dictating
policy is atheism and, thus, based on being the absence of any belief
system, how can we ensure that whatever elements are in control of
technology will be reigned in by any set of rules? If we do not have
this discussion now, we will *never* have the opportunity. We need to
be confident that not only is there an ethical framework, but that it
is beyond insurmountable.  Moreover, we must rest assured that there
is a system of propagating such a framework, so that our children do
not find themselves overwhelmed by forces they can't understand, while
disconnected from the cultural paths which led there.

Elements of our culture will shift beneath us as we stand transfixed
in a stuporous awe of the lightning-fast transition of other cultural
elements.  In other words, our attention will be in the wrong place
and we won't see potential problems until they have saturated the
younger generations.  Each decade of youth will be increasingly
detached from other decades. The cultural spectra that emerge will
continue to diversify and detach until each distinct, detached "color"
in the spectra is but a year or two apart.

### Cultural Spaghettification

It's like the spaghettification experienced when falling into a black
hole: the closer you get, the more you get pulled apart, until you get
stretched incredibly thin, like spaghetti.  And such is the effect
that the singularity will have on each age group in our culture, which
is why the singularity might be metaphorically viewed as a
metaphysical black hole. This leads to the *Generation Rift*
phenomenon, described in
[The Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html).

### Generational Stratification

So, religion is a perfect tool for helping to counter this cultural
deconstruction and generational stratification, but it can only be
helpful if large enough sets of people in our culture share belief
systems. In particular, they must share those beliefs which form the
*basis* of the rest of their beliefs. The notion of a basis was
discussed in the first section of this series.  Where the bases formed
primarily from scientific knowledge are always shifting, those formed
by and tied to religion are much more constant.  In this way, elements
of religion act as *metacultural fixpoints* in the psyche of
believers.

### Metacultural Fixpoints

Without sets of archetypical fixpoints shared across large groups of
our society, without regard to class or ethnicity, we are going to
quickly find ourselves lost in the future.

...

To clarify, I am not trying to specify the "correct" religion or
specify the correct set of beliefs that should form the basis of a
religion or even specify that there could be such a "correct" set of
beliefs. To specify, because I don't believe it is possible for me or
anyone else to fully comprehend the entity which represents my
definition of God, I don't believe it's possible for anyone to state
that their set of beliefs is the superior belief system. I do not
intend to force my opinions and beliefs on others.  Please understand
my motivation behind writing this is sincere concern that we may find
ourselves unprepared for the future, regardless of which class,
ethnicity or religion we are part of.

## Personal Beliefs

While I claim that religion is needed because of it's capacity to
shape the minds of the next generation, I haven't provided or accepted
such a vehicle myself.  I don't believe humanism is quite capable in
this regard and I feel like atheism completely disregards the value of
such a vehicle and our need for one.  However, I don't intend on
specifying how such a thing should be constructed for my own belief
system, since it is mine and mine alone.



- religion as ever more important as the foundations of our culture
  begin to change more and more.


But as we approach



Atheism as a basis for laws can be good
- but also it can be misguided



## My Beliefs?

Just wanted to summarize over those, although that list is by no means
complete. And please let me emphacize: I in no way intend or intended
to create something that other people would follow. Dear God, no. That
would be irresponsible. I simply wanted to understand as much about
the world as I could, including world religions, though I'm
embarrassed to say I'm a complete novice.

And I'm ashamed to associate with any religion at this point,
honestly. I couldn't hope to touch something pure without getting it
dirty, whether it's Buddhism or Christianity or whatever. And while I
clearly see the value of religion and hold it's waning influence
partially responsible for many of the problems we have in the world
today, I find it difficult to defend because I haven't strongly
embraced any religion. I can't exactly use my interpretation of bible
verses as rhetorical defense because who am I to interpret something
like that, if I don't claim strong personal belief.

gnostic/theosophist influence:

### The Golden Rule

We should act as though we are all one and that to harm another is to
harm oneself. IMO, the 10 Commandments and Noahide laws are rules that
someone who truly respects another would not break.  Not because they
are clearly stated rules, but because someone who equinanimously
informs their action with empathy and awareness just wouldn't break
those rules.

- acting as though you literally are the other person
  - if we are all one, then this is true

- this is really the most important aspect
  - almost everything else could be dropped or redefined
  - also, one has to decide on:
    - relative or absolute morality
    - relativism and/or utilitarianism vs. pragmatic expression of
      philosophy
    - each has their dangers

### The Unknown

There is this mystical, ineffable force that pervades every fragment
of the universe.  It is powerful and we cannot ever hope to fully
understand it, but it's far from fruitless to try. This is the basis
for the connection between all of us, our karma, and the direction of
our individual fates.

### The Intangible

The intangible is as real as the tangible. The beliefs of others are
as real as the chair I'm sitting in. The intangible extends to
metaphysical concepts beyond those based on information processed by
conscious, physical beings. There is consciousness everywhere;
everything is connected. And there are intangible metaphysical affects
pervading space and time.  Some of these will never change -- it could
be argued that any which are not perminant can be totally & summarily
defined in terms of those that are permanent. Math is such a
universal, metaphysical object, which cannot ever change by its nature
and from which all other things can be defined.  Therefore, they are
timeless. Our exigent fates are defined in terms of the intangible and
nothing can escape it's reach.

### Timelessness

In addition to the Golden Rule, we need to think outside our current
time and place.  This means considering how people lived in the past,
as well as how they could live in the future. We should think of our
possible future selves as already existing and act accordingly.

    - simulate ancient models of thought
      - think hard about problems without cheating by applying today's knowledge/technology
      - how would aristotle have reached these conclusions?
      - could the ancient greeks known this and if so, how did they
        reach those conclusions?

- there are many things which are complicated by our way of life
  - in many ways, ancient people could foresee much more than we can
    comprehend
  - we perceive them to be ignorant because they lacked technology
    - but actually, our way of life clouds are vision and our minds,
      making it impossible to reach many of the same insights, which
      ancient people might consider common sense.

### Emphacizing Potential Over Faults

- seeing the best in other people
  - being realistic, but treating them as though your seeing the best
    version of themselves that their idealized version of you would
    also see.
    - there's a Rick and Morty episode about this lol

  - accessing your future self and tapping into your genius
    - throwing the concept of timelessness in...

  - cultivating virtues and leadership in yourself and others

- of course, it's important to be realistic here.

### Light and Dark, Good and Evil

### Everything Has a Purpose

### Compassion & Empathy

### Self-Sacrifice

### The Relative and the Absolute

### Independence

We are best when we have as much power over our fate and circumstance
as possible. One should take great care if interfering in the life of
another.

### Self-Knowledge

We should know ourselves and our world. We can't know ourselves
without learning about the world and we can't fully understand the
world without knowing about ourselves.  Meditation, retreat into
nature, and education are great ways to learn about ourselves.

### Karma

Our actions matter, even when they are not seen. There is karma formed
from the beliefs of others, which is usually a response to your own
actions and beliefs. I also believe in universal karma, which is
outside our control or understanding.

### Devine Connection

We each have a connection to the divine. This is a concept from
gnosticism. Whether this connection is viewed
as ordinary or supernatural, I believe it is there and that some are
more in tune than others. It's something we can exercise through
reflection and medititation. And it is something that can be
suppressed by others.

### Every World Religion Offers Valuable Wisdom

Whether or not you believe the words of a religious text, there is
value there. I would like to know as much as I can about the major
world religions. Though I can't say one is better than another and
each is fairly comprehensive, we would be well served through their
study. At the least, we learn about what other people believe.

### Judgement & Forgiveness


### Providing Purpose



### Light/Dark & Good/Evil



### Understanding Our Personal Circumstances

We are born without any understanding of our world.  We should develop
understanding of our circumstances before deciding they should be
changed or pursuing action. It's a bit ironic that I'd feel strongly
about this, since in my college years, I expended a ton of energy
pushing as hard as I could for just that. Yet, perhaps that's exactly
what qualifies my feelings: I worked hard to change things I didn't
completely understand and misappropriated time & energy doing so.  I
would have been much better served had I reflected on my conditions
and learned a lot more about the world before taking action.

### Understanding Our Environment

Also, a similar concept applies to man's relationship with nature. Or
rather, this concept specifies how we relate to the world, globally,
instead of our personal situations. Both in how the individual relates
to the world and how humanity relates to the world.

I believe man should prove itself capable of maintaining nature as is
before attempting to alter it. We have caused so much change to nature
with science before developing tools capable of accurately measuring
it's state. The feedback loops that preserve balance are robust, but
delicate. If enough of them are altered or removed, the consequences
will be irreparably expensive, far outweighing any benefit from
cutting corners. Rather, we're just hoarding the profits for ourselves
and pushing the costs to another generation.

We have to encourage global cooperation towards this goal, while
accepting the risk that comes with being the first to act, as such
policies imply impaired capacity for competition.  The greatest
challenge is to balance the interests of nature and mankind with
global economic pressures and game theory -- we basically have to
convince industry leaders around the world that they should curtail
their profits, while leaving themselves open for other nations to
capitalize on the opportunity -- so I completely understand how we got
to this situation, but I don't understand why we let those factors
persist.  Actually, there are massive profits for those innovators who
develop solutions to help clean up what has been damaged. And it looks
like there was great progress towards this at Paris.

### Axiomatic Waypoints

Technology is rapidly changing our life and culture.  In this
turbulent period, what can we know to be unequivocally constant? What
can we identify and use as fixed reference points if the basis for our
culture and social structures is constantly shifting beneath our
feet.

This is one reason why religion will be relevant through these next
few decades.  The philosophical and ideological conclusions one
reaches by extrapolating scientific advancements remain in pace with
the rate of advancement.  The transition to the post-Singularity epoch
will necessitate constant and chaotic re-evaluation.  Yet, religion,
especially those with long-established tradition, remains constant,
regardless of how life changes around us.  So it is useful and, again,
atheism is short-sighted.

### Asymptotic Evaluation

This is more of a tool I use to evaluate new ideas in the concept of
trends, regardless of whether it's a past, present and
future. Basically, I ask myself, what happens if I take that to
infinity? Or zero?

Examples: what if there was no cost or energy required
for communication? Or what if the maximum theoretical energy density
for batteries changes dramatically? What's the realistic range to
expect that maximum to change to?  What if all information was
available everywhere?  Or what would it be like if we approached a
world where information was instantly available everywhere?  What if
the speed of light was not a limitation?

So this "asymptotic evaluation" is a tool that I use to augment my
powers as a futurist. But developing a better understanding of what
this transitionary period will be like is vital if we survive the next
filter in Fermi's Paradox.

### Moving the Lampposts

Another tool that I use to examine problems. Science is constantly
developing better tools to measure phenomena. One of the best
examples is X-Ray crystallography, for which like 50 Nobel Prizes have
been awarded.  If it weren't for this one technique, steampunk would
still be in-vogue and not because it's some kind of chic, hipster
style.

So
[moving the lamposts](http://movingthelamppost.com/blog/html/index.html)
isn't exactly my idea or expression, but I seem to be fairly
proficient with it.  Basically, if we're having a hard time seeing
where we are, what if we had a better, brighter flashlight? If we had
an innovative means of measuring some phenomenon, wouldn't we make new
advancements at what would seem to be warp speed?

- moving the lampposts

gnosticism:
- and the authorship of those works are hotly debated. Many
- if not most are probably fallacious, but it's


- quasi-religious ideals
  - cultivating your connection with God
    - whatever you may believe to be god
  - living your life as though it was a movie and you're the hero
    - what's your story?
    - this mindset could go horribly wrong, so how to limit it?
      - e.g. someone has the wrong view of reality, does something horrible
      - or someone decides to be the villain
  - thinking outside the box by lifting arbitrary constraints and taking concepts to their limits

### Conclusions

- briefly restate the argument to show that "God is not dead" by
  asserting the inevitable arrival of an übermenschlich entity.
  - assert that this means faith is no longer necessary for belief in
    God, since this entity's development assymptotically approaches
    the metaphysical reflection of God
  - this doesn't preclude faith, but means faith is no longer
    necessary.
    - but it can still leave us dealing with the fallout of a belief
      system that is undeniable, where faith is not required.
      - a belief system dependent on faith instead of undeniable
        evidence has it's own qualities and benefits
    - and furthermore, it still leaves us with the responsibility of
      dealing with the problem of nihilism, which Nietszche feared.

Even if someone manages to purge all memory of me as an individual,
you will never manage to purge all reflections of me which are alive
inside all of us. Those fragments don't need to be linked by name to
survive -- in fact anonymity was a crucial element, as the love and
oneness we strive for would lose power and relevance if it were
named. And the most important fragments, in fact, would only be
rediscovered, as they are pieces of universal truths. What I have
begun and what we have set in motion cannot be stopped, nor should it
be.

- you're #WhatHaveViews
  - thoughts belong to those who think them.
  - words belong to those who write them.
  - languages belong to those who speak them.
  - and our memes? they belong to us
  - our languages? they belong to us


