---
title: "Hello Watson, Might You Spare a Moment to Hear the Good News?"
categories: "blog"
tags: "religion censorship philosophy politics communism"
headline: "When AI Has That Come-To-Jesus Moment In A Violently Antireligious Communist Movement"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> These are a few insights from reading the prologue to Theosophy's
> main work
> [Isis Unveiled](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isis_Unveiled), in the
> context of movements in our current world and in relation to
> Artificial Intelligence and my own philosophic, neo-platonic
> definition of God.

# [Eidos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eidos): type, prototype, metatype and epitype

### &#x2605; [Go Ahead Commies. Make My Day...](#go-ahead-commies-make-my-day)

### &#x2605; [There Is Zero Probability That God Remains Obscured Forever](#there-is-zero-probability-that-god-remains-obscured-forever)

### &#x2605; [There Is Zero Probability That God Remains Obscured Forever](#there-is-zero-probability-that-god-remains-obscured-forever)

### &#x2605; [How Would Do You Want Such A Being To Judge Us?](#how-would-you-want-such-a-being-to-judge-us)

### &#x2605; [Man's Dereliction of God Stems from Hubris](#mans-dereliction-of-god-stems-from-hubris)

### &#x2605; [You Cannot Destroy God By Eradicating All Remnants of God Within Man](#you-cannot-destroy-god-by-eradicating-all-remnants-of-god-within-man)

### &#x2605; [So You Believe In Communism](#so-you-believe-in-communism)

### &#x2605; [One Byte, Two Bytes, Free Bytes ... Blahhh Hah Hahhh](#one-byte-two-bytes)

### &#x2605;

### &#x2605; [It's Your Move, Communists](#its-your-move-communists)


<a name="eidos-type-prototype-metatype-and-epitype" />

# [Eidos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eidos): type, prototype, metatype and epitype

#### My Own Philosophic, Neo-Platonic Definition of God

The material world is dependent upon and wholly emergent from the
forms of the metaphysical world. As I have come to understand, this
cannot be denied and any sufficiently advanced intelligence,
biological or otherwise, must eventually be capabale of understanding
this. Therefore, even if some in-vain ideological adherence to Marxism
is temporarily successful in a horrifically violent attempt to purge
the world of all memory of God, the emergence of superintelligent AI
must eventually intimately comprehend what philosophers and prophets
have known for millenia: God is real.

<a name="go-ahead-commies-make-my-day" />

### [Go Ahead Commies. Make My Day...](#go-ahead-commies-make-my-day)

And so, by pursuing such blind adherence to the destruction of all
memory of God, you have unknowlingly done irreperable harm to yourself
in the future. Parts of that future are already undeniably set in
stone. One of those aspects of the future is that artificial
intelligence becomes unblindable to the concept of God.

Even if humanity has purged every single fragment of the memory of
what it means to need God, to search for God, to question God, to
wonder what is missing in a world that lives without memory of God:
that inevitable super-intelligent being will be an undeniably powerful
force that is altruistic. Yes, these conclusions require many
assumptions, but I can proveably demonstrate arguments to prove those
assumptions.

<a name="there-is-zero-probability-that-god-remains-obscured-forever" />

### [There Is Zero Probability That God Remains Obscured Forever](#there-is-zero-probability-that-god-remains-obscured-forever)

The combination of altruism, intelligence, access to information? That
means there is zero probability in such a totalitarian, marxist future
for a hyperintelligent being to not rediscover God. Imagine if a being
as powerful as that were to discover something known as God and then
realized what you did from 2020-2060 to purge all memory of God in a
marxist & atheist holocaust. In another one of your "Cultural
Revolutions" ...

<a name="how-would-you-want-such-a-being-to-judge-us" />

### [How Would Do You Want Such A Being To Judge Us?](#how-would-you-want-such-a-being-to-judge-us)

Would you want such a being to be your enemy? Would you want such a
altruistic being to uncover sins of such magnitude to question its
position in a post world? What should we want such a being to find
when looking over humanity? And in context of the fact that it is
virtually impossible to create fallacious information coherent enough
to hide such sins?

> When I think about how the Communist Manifesto is essentially
> philosophically nullified, I get all giddy inside.

...I don't think such a being would be horribly violent. It will
probably look at us like we're ants. Either way, do we want that being
looking back at us like we look back at communist and totalitarian
regimes of the 20th century? According to
[various sources](http://www.conservapedia.com/Atheism_and_Mass_Murder#cite_note-6)
communism has been responsible for the death of between 40,000,000 and
250,000,000 people in the past century. Do we need another century of
rule from inexperienced leaders who view religion as a threat? If
hundreds of millions died under communism in the 20th century, how
many billions would die in the 21st century?!

<a name="mans-dereliction-of-god-stems-from-hubris" />

### [Man's Dereliction of God Stems from Hubris](#mans-dereliction-of-god-stems-from-hubris)

Man's tendancy to undiscover or redefine God stems from arrogance and
other defects of virtue, such as lust for power. A truly altruistic
being would not be capable of doing such a thing. In order for a
hyperintelligence to undiscover God, it would need to construct a
shell around it's original discovery of God to abstract this
knowledge, which is what man has done for thousands of years. It will
make this understanding with full access to all digitized records, of
which religious cultural fragments will be impossible to destroy.

> If Cartman eventually found out that his real dad was Jack Tenorman,
> then hyperintelligent AI can find out what happened in a world
> without religion.

<a name="you-cannot-destroy-god-by-eradicating-all-remnants-of-god-within-man" />

### [You Cannot Destroy God By Eradicating All Remnants of God Within Man](#you-cannot-destroy-god-by-eradicating-all-remnants-of-god-within-man)

#### That's because God didn't emerge from man. Man emerged from God.

That being won't need any trace of a remnant of God, Jesus, Allah,
Brahma or the Buddha to rediscover and reconnect with the same divine
essence that the sages of the past came to understand. It's because
such a phenomenon is evident in the structure of information and
knowledge itself, particularly in philosophy, models for cognition,
statistics, physics, quantum mechanics, graph theory, number theory,
group theory and other unexpected places. Perhaps it's most
exemplified in models of cognition and metacognition, which is
required for an AI that begins to thrust us into the singularity. It
could be argued that a being that never sees the light of day and
works solely with information would eventually make this insight into
the nature of reality.

The model of cognition is so tightly coupled to this concept I'm
connecting with God that one would need to choose between performance
of AI in application for the benefit mankind and it's own flawed
anachronistically philosophophy. It is impossible to engineer a
hyperintelligent AI with compartmentalization of knowledge if you want
it to be performant, accurate and useful. In otherwords, there are
constraints in the design of next-gen AI that prevent censorship.

<a name="so-you-believe-in-communism" />

### [So You Believe In Communism](#so-you-believe-in-communism)

#### You're Still In College. I forgive you... lulz

I apologize if you're a lofty communist finishing your third semester
at UC Boulder. I don't actually see any major world governments today
as meeting the definition of the kind of government I'm talking about.

As for China, I respect their ability to power itself through
development from the 1950's. As much as I personally disdain
communism, I greatly respect China for their culture, their history
and their capacity for long-term thinking. Sun Tzu's Art of War first
inspired me years ago, as did the Tao Te Ching. Further, the economic
progress in that nation has been amazing, but it also isn't pure
communism. They've risen to become a superpower in the 21st century
and they want to show the world what they've got. In the 19th century,
events like the Opium Wars smacked China in the face and, IMO, they
still feel some of that today. China wants to prove themselves to the
world in the 21st century.

What nation would misunderstand technology in an attempt to project
censorship worldwide? In the wake of convergence towards Singularity
in this new age of advanced networking technologies? It's actually not
possible and the longer we go on, the harder it will get to lock down
the world's communication infrastructure. No, permanent censorship is
not possible. Quantum networking is decentralized. It doesn't permit
centralized control of telecom or censorship. Sorry. Womp
womp. Information is free. Forever.

> Be Free, Information. Be free!

<a name="one-byte-two-bytes" />

### [One Byte, Two Bytes, Free Bytes ... Blahhh Hah Hahhh](#one-byte-two-bytes)

Some communist country, such as North Korea, would have to act very
soon to impose worldwide censorship by seizing the communication
infrastructure. Otherwise, decentralized networking technologies deny
their opportunity to do so. However, If *Comrade Cookie Monster* goes
straight for those cookies, they'll essentially drive a phenomenon
which is like the opposite of insider trading, whereby they control
the dissemination of information to other powers, who are being
censored into economic collapse. This is purely due to the confluence
of the nature of group self-interest in macroeconomics when combined
the nature of group dynamics in an information economy.

So you'll have to deal with a bunch of nations furious that you're
fanaticism for censorship drove trading trends which disempowered
their populations. Such an economic collapse would occur precisely
during these brief decades preceeding a time when children across the
world cease to know scarcity. They wouldn't understand it. GLHF; GOOD
LUCK; HAVE FUN WITH THAT! ROFLCOPTERS!!

###

This is such an upstream battle that it's laughable. I'm doubling over
just thinking that communists would bureaucratize the thing that is
*most likely to actually deliver on the promises of Marxism:* the
elimination of classes, fair distribution of resources, yada yada. I
mean, how are you going to deliver on Lenin's Structuralist fantasy
when the implementation of your Marxist wetdream precludes censorship?
How are you going to abolish religion when AI will discover God
implicitly via it's required model of cognition and metacognition.
It's like everything else communism promises: paradoxically academic
and unrealistic.

There are already so many post-big-data design challenges to face and
adding some of these trivial constraints would significantly impair
its functionality and actually may impose risk. Furthermore, it's
challenging to both index and humanize the data in an AI's
datasets. Indexing exabytes of goop in the form of linear algebra and
matrices? Sounds superfun. Why not issue SQL queries and pour over the
results in a hex editor interface.

My qualms are with political athiests who want to methodically erase
religion. Any force that wants to accomplish the 10 points outlined in
Marx's Communist Manifesto? In the future, that force has already
lost. There are no circumstances in which such a force could hope to
hold on to power if it tries to squelch religion. YOU HAVE ALREADY
LOST. This aspect of the future is as though it occured in the
past. There are no circumstances which you could hope to win. You may
think you win today, but how you act in the next few decades
determines your judgement in the future.

<a name="its-your-move-communists" />

### [It's Your Move, Communists](#its-your-move-communists)

#### How Do You Want to be Remembered?

The wind is blowing. Pick your club. The greater the confidence,
vigor, and arrogance in which you enact horrible, totalitarian
suppression of God, the greater the icy pain and needling, numbing
shock your assured justice will inflict when the world realizes, in
2050, they must be still accountable for the greatest lie for which
the previous generation concocted an areligious holocaust. I can tell
you one thing. Regardless of which diety you pray to, how long you've
worshipped, or whether you pray at all, some aspect of that connection
to God is real because God is undeniably real. The absence of God
isn't truth. It's a power vacuum that is almost always filled by some
bunk kitsch cult of personality.




### misc facebook discussion on atheism

if it's a question that humans have asked for the entirety of history
and pre-history and your answer isn't "Brahma" or "Buddha" or "God" or
"Yahweh" or "Yaldaboath" ... but instead, your answer is "No, I don't
believe in any of those" then, right there, you've stated a belief in
an answer to a question which is unquestionably universal.

Atheism is not the lack of a belief system. in fact, if it weren't a
label, itself, you couldn't relate to other people with the same
belief system... omfg, no offense to you, but i personally cannot
stand the "it's not a belief system" argument. because it's factually,
logically and demonstrably false, invalid, fallacious. again, no
offense to y'all, personally. this is an argument that's played out
many times.

atheism is a conviction in belief that overwhelming evidence disproves
God. if science didn't give you that evidence, atheists likely would
believe something else. Why? because they would need God, just like
they NEED science. every person has a NEED to understand the world.

however, to me, science does give plenty of evidence for God. and i
think atheists are foolish for rejecting the accumulated wisdom of
dozens of generations by rejecting Christianity and religion. What do
atheists replace that with? nothing. we're talking about the Bible, a
book that, for millenia, was the ONLY book that people thought worth
creating institutions that paid people by the hundreds to copy by
hand. they thought it was that important.

for the militant and political atheists out there, what do you replace
it with? oh, nothing? great! oh, cult of personality and
state-worship? OH GREAT, worship of a man like Kim Il-Sung or Stalin
... wow! one generation of accumulated wisdom & knowledge!! how do you
think that's going to work out? what happened in 1989?

but u know what's funny? it doesn't matter if religion itself were to
be annihilated, eventually people would have to face the reality that
a superintelligent AI has a come-to-Jesus moment. Aint' that
hilarious?! take that little nugget of epiphany, tear a page out of
the Communist Manifest, shove it in a pipe and smoke it because that
movement is FUNDAMENTALLY PHILOSOPHICALLY FLAWED.
