---
title: "A Speculative History of 5,000 B.C. (Part Two)"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology"
headline: Calamity Echoes Through Human Psyche
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt:
---

- part two starts with 8,000 BC - 5,000 BC, then covers up to 4,000 BC
- part three covers 4,000 BC through 2,000 BC and then sums up the rest

message dr anderson

Lets be real, up to this point, humanity has been sticking to the
rivers and lakes that it's used to.  But that's all about to change.
Things are starting to heat up.  Literally.

As I stated in the last article, this writing represents my personal
thoughts on human history from the Neolithic through the Bronze Age
and it shouldn't be take as fact.  It's titled "A Speculative History"
for a reason.  I hope to provide a good story and possibly spark your
interest.  If I do, follow up with some research yourself.

### Calamity Echoes Through Human Psyche

The Neolithic was fraught with changing weather patterns and
disaster. This continued through the late Neolithic, up through the
early Copper Age.  After 6,000 BC, the ice stopped melting and the
weather became a lot more stable.  When ice melts and land bridges are
broken, ocean currents and undersea brine rivers are disrupting,
forming new patterns which drive weather.  The changing weather causes
some areas to lose their appeal for settlement, forcing people to find
greener pastures.  Such was the case for the Sahara, which was mostly
green and arable through a long transition around 5,000 BC, finally
becoming the desert we know today.

Through the neolithic period, most of humanity was nomadic.  Lack of
settlement means lack of sustained agriculture, though. Because our
food source is restricted to what we can find to eat, this limits our
population, as do many other factors, such as regularly scheduled
catastrophic flooding.  Lack of settlement means trade is sporadic at
best and both of these factors contribute to stifled cultural
development.  Trade might be the single most important factor
incentivizing development of abstract written communication, so that's
right out too.  When you trade, you have to count things, write them
down and persist that information.

The humans that did settle would do so near the ocean, along rivers,
deltas and lakes.  They would find the easy access to water alluring
and so would animals, providing food.  However, these are the exact
areas subject to widespread destruction in flooding, which was often
seasonal, but sometimes devastating.  And these are just the exact
people who would be developing the basis of sophisticated
culture. During the period of 12,000 BC through 6,000 BC, there were
likely dozens of megafloods around the world, each wiping out between
5% and 50% of the population in that region.  If you experienced an
event like that and survived, you'd want to know why and you'd want to
find out how to prevent it from happening again.  Yet, these events
were relatively rare to the victim populations and only preserved
through myth.  It was difficult to understand the mechanism causing
flooding and if some group did, then it was difficult to propagate
that knowledge or discern a method to predict when one would happen.

However, that's not to say that we didn't understand what was going on
around us.  I believe that ancient humanity was well aware of rising
sea levels, since this is something they'd definitely be able to mark
and measure over the course of three or so generations.  At times, the
sea was rising at a rate of 10m every 300-500 years.  That's really
fast, for some areas.  People would notice --

> Oh shit, guys.  I think we're about to be on an island.  I don't
> think there's any way off of this thing.  Are you staying?  I'm
> peacin' out y'all.  Nevermind, too late.  There's not much food left
> here.  You think we can make somethin' that floats real good? I'm
> starving.

Boom. Seafare.

I really think that this ever-changing world created the conditions
that required humanity to innovate or perish.  By developing crude
seafare.

So you see, this transition was destructive and creative at the same
time, isolating groups of humans and psychologically imprinting us
with disaster, over and over again.  These disasters sparked a need to
conceptualize the world around us.  To understand, we developed means of
surveying the earth.  We developed an intense desire to understand
geography, everyone did.  It was already crucial for sustenance and
intriguing for self-discovery, but now it was important for survival.

We developed archeoastronomy, utilizing monoliths and smaller markers
to measure the motion of the stars, perhaps the only thing that ever
remained unquestionably constant.  As people had been migrating
throughout the ice age, the stars should have been well known for
navigation.  This would only become more systematized. Through the
Copper Age, it became apparent that understanding these phenomena
granted power and influence over others.  At some point, we reached a
critical mass of understanding, when cultural artifacts became more
valuable and useful for survival than anything tangible could be, in
itself.

This dynamic, deadly world of the Late Neolithic and Copper Age
provided us with the impetus for humanity to culturally innovate.  We
began to share information with other groups and more importantly, we
began to develop methodical strategies to share information more
efficiently and effectively.  And then, there was metallurgy, perhaps
the most important development until writing. In addition to being a
useful new technology, metallurgy paved way to creating resources
worth accumulating.

Excess of goods helped foster trade.  Trade incentivized cultural
exchange, the acquisition of new technologies, and conflict.  The
accelerating cultural exchange lead us to expand our lexicon: the set
of words and ideas we were aware of and could combine to form new
ideas. For the intelligent, commerce also provided motivation to
discover geography to locate the fastest and most trodden routes.
Trade quickly drove us to abstract the notion of value into money to
further accelerate commerce.  This was tightly related to metallurgy.
What else could be so valuable to anyone except Gold or Copper:
materials which should be equally useful to anyone with a hammer.

> It's shiny? I can bang it with a rock, loudly, till I get what ever
> I need? Gotta have it.  How long do I have to bang it?  Is it Gold?
> Never seent it. Is it copper?  Got tons of it. Good stuff.  Silver?
> Never heard of it. Lead? Raw? How hot do I have to burn it?

Trade and especially money drove us to create written language, with
which we could propagate ideas without speech and preserve traditions
or will, even beyond death.  Systematized forms of writing beyond art
were not developed until the end of Copper Age or the beginning of the
Bronze Age.

### The Origins of Conflict

Human conflict doesn't seem common until the mid copper age, at least
not on a scale pitting one society against another in an organized
way.  It wouldn't become very common until the bronze age because the
factors that make warfare appealing for survival or political purposes
don't quite exist yet.  There are some exceptions.  Conflict on a
small scale may have been somewhat common in the neolithic, as this
[article](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/jan/20/stone-age-massacre-offers-earliest-evidence-human-warfare-kenya)
discusses a 10,000 BP dig finding violence leaving dozens dead.
Hardly warfare, IMO.

First off, think about warfare in the late neolithic.  It's hard.
Yeh, you've got arrows, but the range is only a hundred yards, maybe.
That doesn't give you much of an advantage in time before the
otherside reaches you and then, the best weapons are spears and rocks.
Also, not great weapons. I mean, if you want to disable someone with a
spear, you've got to hit the guy a couple times and what if he just
breaks your wooden spear?  Just snaps it in half.  What are you going
to do? And you can't carry very many weapons.  They're heavy and no
one knows how to make good ones.  Or what if he takes one of the few
weapons you can carry with you and stabs you with it.  That's gonna
hurt and you're probably going to get an infection and die.

Have you ever had to kill someone with a rock?  Like a really big
rock?  Can you imagine how grotesque that would be?  If you have to
kill someone with a gun, it's not very hard.  You can sort of look the
other way and squeeze real hard and it's over.  You've done it, one
quick action and you've completed your mistake and you can get on with
guilt and whatnot.  But a rock?  You've just got to keep bashing and
bashing and it's really just a more emotional experience.  And you
can't convince dozens of people to fight each other with rocks.  Just
not going to happen.

So you see.  Warfare's just not a good idea right now.  It's hard to
kill people.  And like other things at this point, people just aren't
very good at it yet.  There's no armor or anything and there's no
guarantee that you won't get killed yourself.  It's really a coin
toss.  There's no reassuring feeling that your technology is going
give you a nice clean win and therefore, it's also hard to convince
hundreds of others to go along with you.  This brings me to my next
point.

There aren't very many people at this point.  The world was harsh,
unforgiving, but bountiful.  Therefore, cooperation was much more
rewarding than warfare.  You could protect yourself from risk and
harsh conditions by cooperating.  The benefits reaped from this
cooperation for mutual benefit far outweighed those a group would
receive by attacking another group.  And those benefits would be
negligible - there were no resources worth accumulating.  Therefore,
there were no resources accumulated.  Most food spoiled, agriculture
was limited.  There was limited trade, except for leather and
obsidian.  Beginning with the copper age, people began trading the
eponymous copper, as it was malleable.  But would any of this motivate
conflict?  Hardly.

Without accumulated resources and especially without money (read: gold
and copper) there was no significant financial benefit for warfare.
What are you going to do - murder Abel and take his sticks?  As
technology proliferates, so do accumulated resources.  As small
villages crop up, these advertise the location of accumulated
resources.  Suddenly, the idea of someone having something worth
taking steps into the forefront.  Meaning, if you were a hunter
gatherer tribe facing a hard winter with no food in 20000 BC, you
almost never would have encountered an opportunity to provide for
yourself by stealing from another tribe.  Because people were
migratory, with a few exceptions, it would be very difficult to
determine their location.  When people build towns, they would be
vulnerable to theft and raids, which may be one factor contributing to
nomadic societies.

When I say money, at this point, I mean gold and copper.  Silver
wasn't really a thing, as it had to be separated from lead.  Lead
would be moderately useful, but needs to be headed to about 300&#176;C
to separate it from it's constituent materials, commonly including
silver.  Gold was exceedingly rare throughout the world, but copper
deposits can be found all through out Anatolia and it's surrounding
regions. Tin was very rare and European deposits were mostly located
in Spain, preventing the discovery of bronze.

> Swords to plowshares. Far from the intended meaning of the phrase,
> it implies the double-edged nature of technology: the same
> tech can be used for good or evil.

Metallurgy means people can make more efficient weapons and
agricultural tools. However, it is doubtful that, at least in the
beginning, people thought of what was used as money as a separate
thing called money.  It's just in the nature of copper that it was so
useful to everyone that it embodied **pre-historic liquidity.**
Because everyone knew that everyone needed or wanted metallic stuff,
primarily copper, then they'd anticipate they could use it as a medium
to barter with everyone else. Therefore, as a store of value, copper
was great.  Even if you didn't want it, you knew that someone else
needed it.

Without accumulated resources, controlled trade and money, there is
are no taxes either. Without taxes, there's no dedicated government of
any respectable size.  With no taxes and no government, it's really
hard to systematically coordinate people's lives.  And organizing a
large population to start war?  Forget about it.  When hundreds of
people start colocating in small towns, it's much easier to convince
people to pay taxes and to find prospective soldiers for defense or
war.  But without taxes, you're not going to convince anybody to risk
their life in your war, outside perhaps minor skirmishes over
resources.  What's in it for them? Without societies of significant
size, there's no abstraction or specialization of tasks.  War of any
scale means a significant portion of men leaving the fields.  This is
a huge problem for societies with low population.

And to sum up, I'm sure there was localized conflict up to 6,000 BC.
But for the most part, it wasn't organized beyond perhaps a few dozen
people.  The reason is just that the causes of human conflict aren't
there yet.  There's no benefit to war and people just aren't capable
of doing it without significant risk of mortal injury.  There is no
resource over-consumption to drive conflict and population is
constrained.

### Metallurgy ... Or How How Can We Make Fire?

As I've already stated, metallurgy is perhaps the most important
development for mankind, outside of written language.  It's important,
as the availability of metals is perhaps the single most limiting
factor for the proliferation of technology. Copper and Bronze Age
civilizations grew and fell based on the geographic distribution of
metal.  And so, here you can see the hands of fate.  These seemingly
arbitrary factors that determine the course of history.

More than just providing stabby things and protecting oneself from
said stabby things, metal furthers the sense of self, as it provides a
medium for the development of art.  Up to this point, humanity's been
limited to carvings, which deteriorate fast, or painting with blood
and pigments.  But metal, that lasts.  And copper is malleable.  It
allows us to create art, to express and communicate ideas to others.
And because metal lasts, these ideas can be transferred between
generations.

> And this is a really important idea: the persistence of knowledge
> through generations. The length of time that an idea lives on -
> particularly the number of generations. It's not just important as a
> growth factor in the infancy of humanity.  It's also relevant to us
> today.  If you can increase the number of subsequent generations
> from 1 to 2, elements of culture are far more likely to stick
> around.  This is just as relevant today.  In communist regimes, they
> often go for the older generations to eradicate ideas and rewrite
> history.

Once people discovered that metal could melt through the application
of heat, they probably tried burning lots of things.  As villages
became bigger and trade routes extended further, people's interest in
burning things remained steadfast.  They wanted to burn more things,
exotic things they'd never seen before were best.

> What would happen if we burned this new green rock?  Would that
> melt?  Hopefully it didn't explode.

Perhaps more important than finding new things to burn was finding
something which could burn hotter.  This opened new doors for
metallurgy.  Some materials became standard candles for measure of
heat and primarily: galena and copper. Galena contains silver and
lead. It must be heated to ~300&#176;C to be separated.  Copper ores
must be heated to around ~1100&#176;C to separate, but fortunately
copper could be found on its own.  Materials like these who's melting
points were commonly known were incredibly useful for identifying new
techniques for burning things even hotter.  Of course, the melting
points were not known, as there was no standardized means of measuring
temperature.  However, it was known that one thing would consistently
melt before another and that melting some materials required specific
techniques.

Because there was a financial incentive in converting raw ore to
constituent materials, the development of new smelting techniques was
sought after. They used water to cool rocks, weakening them so they
could be easily smashed to obtain ore and developed many other
interesting techniques to process materials.  People who were able to
mine and process ore accumulated valuable materials for trade. Perhaps
more valuable than the metals themselves was the financial incentive
they gave humanity to discover more about our world.

Materials that burned hotter would be very interesting, especially
oil.  While we would not understand the specific natural laws that
determined chemical properties, some of us would understand that
energy was naturally contained in various materials to varying
degrees.  We would observe that different kinds of woods burned hotter
and that fire burned hotter with increased airflow or when the air was
concentrated and contained.  Therefore, similarly to ordering
materials by their melting point, we would also similarly assess
combustible materials by their energy density, without knowing what
that concept is scientifically.

And if cultures came into contact with significant amounts of oil,
they would certainly recognize both its energy density and value.  Far
and beyond most other natural materials, oil has an abundance of
energy.  Unlike some other natural materials with high energy density,
it is fairly accessible.  However, it's use would have been greatly
restricted by availability and discoverability.  We just wouldn't be
able to consistently find it.  Therefore, provided that both its
scarcity and uniquely high energy density were knowable, I conclude
that ancient alchemists would have considered it to be extremely
valuable and chemically similar to other natural oils. If we did
realize its value, we wouldn't have done so until the first or second
millenia BC because we wouldn't have the alchemic knowledge, nor the
ability to know it's global scarcity.

> Oh, that oil stuff?  Yeh, we have a ton of it. What do you mean
> you've never seen it before? The stuff burns hotter than anything
> else we know of, ounce for ounce. We can't figure out what to do
> with it though.  We're gonna call it
> [naphtha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naphtha). You swear you've
> never seen it before though? That shit burns in water! No, I'm not
> lying. Yeh, in water, you know, the splashy stuff. Yeh, we got a ton
> of it.

Mining and metallurgy was also important because they were
remunerative activities that required further development of
specialization and management of logistics.  Agriculture was similar
in this regard.  It was much more useful to develop specialized roles
and distribute work than for each person to do it all themselves.  And
because mining and metallurgy involved the accumulation of large
stores of value, this necessitated leadership.  Someone had to take
charge.  More importantly, that person had to justify why someone
should take charge and prove why it should be them.  Usually, they
hoarded some critical knowledge for themselves, either about the
processes the group required to create value or about their methods of
leadership.

The earliest evidence of copper mining is in Timna Valley, in southern
Israel, dating back to 7,000 BC to 5,000 BC.  The
[Vinča culture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vin%C4%8Da_culture)
culture, that occupied the Balkans in the 5th and 6th millenia, was
one of the first that practiced copper metallurgy. The largest of
their settlements would have accommodated several thousand
people. Their culture produced the widely known
[Tărtăria tablets](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/T%C4%83rt%C4%83ria_tablets),
which IMO, are not legit.  Or at least, not indicative of written
language.  At most, they indicate proto-language, but there's a lot of
controversy surrounding these, including the fact that the clay
tablets were baked after discovery in 1961 to "preserve" them,
preventing carbon dating. They easily could have kept samples for
carbon dating.

### Origin of Religion

- add notes that this is speculation and includes some personal perspectives on
  biblical events (i don't even want to call it an interpretation and these stories
  aren't only found in the bible)

Without widespread, organized religion, there were no other ideological
causes for warfare at this point in history. Without the cultural
infrastructure to spread religion or without the need for a
specialized class of people who can afford to hang out and tend to
religious affairs, religion had a tough time gaining a
foothold. There's no mechanism for organized religion to spread and it
offers no benefits in the late neolithic, nor was there any cultural
apparatus to enforce religious beliefs.

At this point, religion was mostly limited to tribal belief systems
that attempted to explain natural phenomena or preserve knowledge
useful for survival.  Similar to the fluid nature of language
discussed in part one, religious beliefs were also ephemeral.  That
is, they came and went.  No one had a concept of a singular, universal
god.  Instead, they sought to attribute natural phenomena to deities
in an attempt to understand them.  Gods in ancient times were
perceived so differently than they are now, that I would say we should
use a different word to accurately describe the meaning.  They were
moreso a means of organizing knowledge about the world when there were
no other abstractions that could be used as touchstones. In contrast,
in more recent times, we have personified gods and deities. Instead of
being a lens through which to understand the world, they morphed into
all-powerful beings who demand our obedience.  And why?  Because it's
useful as a tool of leadership.

It was only when one belief system conferred significant evolutionary
advantage, that a religion would take off and become widespread.  And
I mean both cultural and informational evolutionary advantages, but
not genetic.  This means that the belief system had significant growth
vectors and more importantly, it offered some benefit to the
society. There was some significant demonstrative or believable value
in adhering to this system.

But organized religion quickly enters the picture, as soon as there is
enough of a stable, localized economy to warrant further social
stratification, leaders begin creating belief systems as a means of
socialization for new generations.  As people witness more and more
phenomena they can't explain, they naturally seek explanation.  And
the people who can explain, especially those who can harness said
inexplicable phenomena, begin to enjoy their new found power. This
shaman or priest class begins to understand that it doesn't just
matter how they explain things, or whether the explanations are even
true at all.  It turns out, for the most part, the only thing that
matters is whether it appears that people believe their explanations.
At this point, the priest class begins to separate itself from the
rest of society.

This happens so often with religions, by the way. There are many cases
of a religion preaching openness and offering to teach others how to
access their divine spark.  The preach that through them, their
followers can come to understand the nature of the universe and come
to know God. Then, typically after a one or two generations, the true
knowledge of the religion is esoterically sealed away from the masses
and only accessible after a lifetime of piety as a priest. The priest
class uses their system of stratification to lock away the truth for
themselves, typically to maintain or create power. In doing so, they
prevent most common people from obtaining true spiritual freedom.
Instead they create a mechanism whereby they sell access to a placebo
for spirituality, acting as gatekeepers who prevent all but a few
carefully filtered adherents from ever knowing the truth.

To me, the knowledge of good and evil is not simply the knowledge of
the existence of good and the existence of evil. That is, this doesn't
represent man's discovery of evil or sin.  Neither is it really the
loss of our innocence, per se.  Instead, the knowledge of good and
evil is the knowledge of _both_ *how to use* **good** and **how to
use** *evil* in order to accomplish one's goals, and especially in the
sense that one becomes aware of how others will perceive an
action. The more abstract our knowledge of the world grew, the more
that abstract knowledge could be used to confer an advantage over
others for good or ill.  Fairly quickly, those with significant
knowledge began to understand just how powerful both knowledge and
information were.  So they learned to horde it because anything
leaking from the priest or ruling class was incredibly dangerous to
themselves.  So therefore, they designed a system to control the
populace by controlling the perception of what was good and what was
evil. These same people feared technological innovations because they
understood how to maintain the status quo, but were afraid of what
they didn't understand.  And once humanity had proverbially eaten of
the fruit of the tree of knowledge, we learned how to control others.
We developed an economy based on specialization and created layers of
social stratification, but we inadvertently created a world that no
longer offered abundance.  In essence, we built a house of cards that
required that people to be imbued with desire for material to be
compelled to contribute to the system.  The further we retreated from
nature, the more we were allured by the promise of completely escaping
its harsh reality.  Yet, the more complicated our societies became,
the more disparate the conditions were for various social strata.

### The Deluge(s)

Almost every culture has a story about a catastrophic flood that
nearly destroyed humanity. Many of these also feature a Noah figure,
whom they divine had influenced to craft an ark and preserve animal
life.  IMO, the animals moreso symbolize the preservation of culture
and knowledge here, whereas the ark symbolizes the preparation of a
small, but wise group of people.  In many of the stories, such as
Gilgamesh and the Sumerian flood epic, the flood is presented as a
conspiracy of the gods against humanity, who is only saved through the
disobedience of one of those gods.  Obviously, the myth can't be
presented in that way in Abrahamic religions, as there is only one
God.

These floods significantly slowed our cultural development, as
they typically knocked out the most fertile and likely to be
development settlements: those located around water. The events would
destroy most of the culture that had developed in a region and only
the people far outside of irrigable land would survive.

In this world, these flooding events were rare, especially
regionally. But they were so destructive that no one would ever
forget.  Any history was limited by the persistence of memory. The
survivors developed these myths as a means to ensure that future
generations would be prepared to preserve culture in case of another
widespread disaster.  The survivors of an event like this might not
have been able to preserve what was lost, but they were well aware of
the scope of what was lost.

The response became an obsession with preventing such loss of culture,
which wasn't only experienced through the wrath of God, but also
commonly experienced through limited warfare.  Those who built
something and accumulated resources worth envy would need to develop
adequate defense against their society being dismantled, physically
and metaphysically.  One of the tools against this dismantlement is
the development of myth, which ensures that cultural archetypes and
programs survive, even if the majority of your buildings and people
don't.  Another tool against this is simply building things so big,
people couldn't tear them apart.  This is why Egyptians entombed their
prized possessions and designed them to be hidden for millennia.  I
believe that the desire to begin building monoliths was, in part,
inspired by the pain of losing everything time and time again.  To
flood and to warfare.  The power to control history by dismantling
other cultures or ideas would already be well experienced in various
levels of society.


- minor seismic events may have preceded previous events by weeks or months, if the flooding was glacial


### Doggerland


Countless myths concern lost cities, once great, but now sunken into
the sea or otherwise forgotten.

A developed
culture, usually fairly advanced that lay in the far north.  The
greeks called it Hyperborea.  Doggerland fits many of these myths.  It
was violently flooded by a tsunami triggered by a massive glacial
event called the Storegga Slide.

- knocked out by tsunami (Storegga Slide around 6200 BC)
  - this is probably not the only time a seaside glacier collapsed, triggering tsunami
  - however, the rest of the developing world was geographically shielded from tsunami's
    - generated by glacial collapse
    - the Mediterranean, definitely not at risk
    - nor would southern india
- flooding of the english channel
  - how would the Storegga Slide have affected this?
- original settlements in england/ireland?

### Lake Agassiz

- spread across canada, much larger than all five great lakes combined
  - fed by melting lake water, but unstable
  - excess freshwater accumulation caused glacial outburst floods
    - some of which refilled the great lakes
    - these would typically cool the northern hemisphere,
      - but increase the sea level
  - around 12,000 BC, it would drain northward when the glacial lake burst
  - started to drain southward when burst.
- around 6,200 BC, it burst for the last time
  - and sea levels may have risen dramatically in response
    - so it seems the sea level rose in bursts


### Black Sea Outburst Flood

There was possibly a major flood here in the 6th or 8th
millenium. It's known that the Black Sea was very recently completely
freshwater, with no connection through the Bosporus.  Another
explanation is that 8th millinium glacial flooding near the Caspian
diverted large amounts of freshwater into the Black Sea. The most
telltale sign of flooding from the Sea of Marmara would be diluvium
near the Bosporus, extending into and beyond the extent of the
original freshwater Black Sea.  Another key indicator could be
variations in mineral concentrations between regions of the originally
freshwater and seawater regions of the Black Sea.  One study, which
I'll reference soon, compared deposits of cellular life near the mouth
of the strait with those found on the seafloor.



IMO, it'd be very hard for the water to naturally breach the Bosporus
Strait when it was still an Isthmus.  Today the strait is only 17
miles long.  It averages 65m deep If this was a natural geological
feature, it should have cyclically flooded and reconnected several
times in the past million years.  It is not likely that it would have
only once occured naturally in recent geological history.  And thus,
the Bosporus Strait should exhibit evidence of a geological structure
that has flooded multiple times.  As thin as the Bosporus Isthmus
would have been, it would be more likely to flood in multiple places
if it flooded multiple times.  This could be another indication of
whether the even happened multiple times.

Perhaps an earthquake in or around the Bosporus weakened the soil
there or somehow otherwise opened.

- earthquake in, near bosphorus? the marmara fault runs through it.
  - possible tsunami that weakened the soil there?
  - sea of marmara was landlocked up to 4000 BC


One last observation is the presence of an underwater brine river in
the Black Sea, originating from the Bosporus Strait and flowing into
the Black Sea, forming what would be the worlds 6th largest river by
volume.  Looking at the depth maps of the Marmara Sea, the Bosporus
and the Black Sea, this seems strange at first.  The Bosporus is 65m
deep on average.  Why would cold water flow up to 65 meters from a
depth of +1000m and into the Black Sea.  On further reading, there is
a warm current flowing in the opposite direction from the Black Sea
into the Marmara.  This current likely draws cold, salty water up
by convection as it enters the Marmara.

- another possible source for flow through the bosporus is the difference in salinity
  - more saline water is pulled in... maybe
  - http://www.crpg.cnrs-nancy.fr/local/cache-vignettes/L500xH186/Capture_d_ecran_2012-08-27_a_16-32-58-a6eba.jpg
  - https://clasticdetritus.files.wordpress.com/2010/08/bosphorous.jpg

[Naratuk: warfare from 10,000 BC](https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/jan/20/stone-age-massacre-offers-earliest-evidence-human-warfare-kenya)

transition from outburst floods

IMO, this one can't be conclusively shown to be, from my amateur take
after some reading. I want it to be true because it might explain a lot.
And there were definitely ancient peoples in the area,

... rewrite that ^^^

... and maybe get rid of this vvvv

using google maps, i can see the effect of erosion from an ancient danube riverbed
- there doesn't seem to be much undersea erosion around the rest of the black sea
  - except for the area leading from the Bosporus strait
- at least, i think.  i don't know what i'm looking for and the data is horribly blurred
  - also, i should see this erosion closer to the source, the Bosporus
  - however, i really think if there were a recent outburst flood,
    - there should be diluvian erosion patterns here

- this is definitely way on the pseudoscience end, but ...
  - the Bosporus Strait is only 17 miles long and averages at 65m deep
    - i'm not really sure what tools it would take to use.  this is the major issue.
    - but if there were tools available, they could have started from them middle
      - or really just dug outward
  - would it be impossible for this to have been one of the first engineering projects?
    - for comparison, the Suez canal is 120 miles long
    - the Panama canal is 50 miles long
  - there were even ancient canal projects:
    - many roman canal projects were of similar depth and breadth
    - canal of the pharoahs: over 50 miles long
      - i'll admit, the wiki page is a bit questionable
      - it doesn't really address whether or not the project was every completed
  - and i can tell, i'm really just trying to make this work,
    - although, turkey and the areas surrounding really was the center of civilization
- but it also matches up with sections from the Gilgamesh and Sumerian flood myths,
  - stating that the gods conspired to cause the flood
  - however, these myths were definitely centered around the Persian Gulf
    - and around Dilmun in particular, which seems to have occupied Bahrain and
      the area beyond Shatt-al-Arab river, the Ur-Schatt river basin in the ancient Persian Gulf

### Dilmun and the Ancient Persian Gulf River Basin

include pics from Kurt Lambeck paper (1995)
- "Shoreline reconstructions for the Persian Gulf since the last glacial maximum"

flooding of the Persian gulf during this time
- probably happened at least once as an unexpected catastrophe
  - then again, periodically every few hundred years
  - these repeated experiences would have been catastrophic to early civilization
  - the pain of losing everything would have been seared into our psyche
    - IMO, this pain served as an impetus to build monolithic works
      - if the work was big enough it would not be lost to catastrophe
      - or disassembled by invaders
    - by building these works, ancient leaders hoped that their culture
      - would never again be completely lost
      - thus the origin behind the search for immortality by Egyptians
- the response to flooding of the Persian gulf
  - during this time, the Tigris & Euphrates would have flowed into Persian Gulf area
    - possibly merging before/around reaching the area now known as Kuwait
    - thus, the fertile crescent before 5,000 BC would have been nearly twice as large
    - and the closest area to the Persian Gulf would have been the most attractive place to live, there
      - this is because it becomes the most ideal port connecting the entire Fertile Cresent river basin
  - people would have been split into at least three groups following the catastrophe(s)
    - people would follow the region along the coast of Iran up towards the Indus Valley
      - these people would eventually found Harrapa, the Indus Valley Civilization (ICV)
    - another group of people would retreat, again and again, further up the Persian Gulf
      - as water repeatedly destroyed coastal civilizations.
      - the changing coastline would become noticeable and would visibly move
        - these changes would occur over the course of two to three generations
        - and measuring these changes would require marking the coastline
          - likely using large stone objects
          - these are also useful as constants for marking/measuring objects in the skyline
    - this group of people would follow the changing Tigris/Euphrates delta
  - a third group would begin occupying higher and higher ground
    - along the coastline from Kuwait to Oman to Yemen


### notes about seafare and trade


- It's thought that humanity has been in the seas since before the end
  of the ice age.
  - hypothesis for how humans reached australia?
- mention how seafare contributes to geography, astronomy & mythology

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_maritime_history#Maritime_prehistory

The importance of geography in the early world.
- surveying (especially elevation, during a chaotic time)
- astrology as a coordinate system for locating oneself
- mythology as a means of preserving knowledge
  - but also for fostering a purpose in a violent world with lots of suffering
  - and for cultivating trans-generational strategies for improving the human condition

sumerian creation myth (1600 BC)

- babylonians tracked jupiter with sophisticated geometrical math
  - http://arstechnica.com/science/2016/01/babylonians-tracked-jupiter-with-sophisticated-geometrical-math/
  - Used geometry that hints at calculus 1,500 years before Europeans.


development of mythology
- gilgamesh

### part 3 stars here

writing in dilmun?  probably not
- dilmun was partially submerged by 8000 BC and mostly submerged by 6000 BC.
  - because of writing's viral nature, it would have quickly escaped if it was developed in Dilmun
- there's a 4000 year space between the time when Dilmun would have been in it's heyday
  - and when Sumeria first started developing it's writing

writing in Sumeria (4000 BC)
- we only have proof of writing back to 4000 BC in Sumeria.
  - however, the first samples of writing are almost entirely comprised of financial records of transactions
    - and inventories of agricultural products.
- but IMO, there was writing in the area before people thought to produce clay tablets.
  - it was part of developing further abstract ideas, but we only have evidence of it
    from when people decided to start firing clay tablets.
  - speaking of which, that whole process seems cumbersome.
    - i don't think everyone had a kiln or means of creating these tablets.
    - they must have been required for some purpose
      - or at least strongly encouraged by some part of their culture
      - perhaps by the introduction of taxes
    - but if not everyone had a kiln, the inhabitants likely developed processes
      - for producing these in some systematic, more efficient way.
    - if you don't own a kiln, but you happen to be rich enough to need to tabulate inventory
      - or record a transaction, the it's basically like going to kinko's every time you need to print something
- these systems likely originated in a similar fashion to language.
  - and it's related to the humans abstracting concepts using art
  - the more common that became, the more people would communicate with art
  - as they communicated with art, particular symbols and styles would emerge to represent similar ideas
- however, they wouldn't be writing in a way that left a permanent trace,
  - that is, until the sumerians started keeping financial records.


### 8,000 BC - 5,000 BC

(from the end of the neolithic to the beginning of the copper age)


sahara climate change
- from 8000 BC to 5000 BC

4 areas with flooding disaster
- doggerland
- black sea
- persian gulf
- ??


break pre-history up into several periods:

- 8,000 BC
  - settlements in turkey (cayal hatuk)
  - melting glaciers providing an impetus for sea travel
  - ending with settlements in mesopotamia
- 5,000 BC


archetypes:
- sunken continent, lost civilization
- deluge/flood/disaster & vengeful god

black sea settlements? research
- apparently a glacial deluge here?  it's a hypothesis, but i think a reasonable one

Copper Age
- anatolia
- cultures began to be capable of processing copper
  - bronze requires copper & tin
  - tin was scarce originally? why?
- vinca culture (early: 5700 BC - 4800 BC, late: 4800 BC - 4200 BC)
  - tartaria tablets (containing vinca symbols),
- timna valley, in southern isreal, shows evidence of copper mining dating back to between 7,000 BC to 5,000 BC
- Bhirrana, the oldest ICV site (dating back to 7500-6200 BC)



Bronze Age
- Troy I founded in 3,000 BC

- sunken monolith discovered at ~50m near sicily in August 2015
  - how much work is being done to explore sites like this?
  - is it possible to do something like LIDAR for underwater surveys
    - that are under less than 100m seawater?
- dilmun, a lost civilization located near Bahrain and mentioned in Gilgamesh
- we can see the cultural legacy of sumerian cuneiform in other mesotopian languages
  - but why is it that the harrapan language just disappeared without any real cultural legacy,
    - especially with their language?


recent genetic work have shown that
- a "mixture" of Indo-Aryans and Dravidians began circa 2200 B.C. and ended around 100 A.D
- recent ars technica article?


### 5,000 BC

by this time, civilization was well established in parts of the indus valley
- it likely wasn't anything like the technologically advanced ICV around 3000 BC

"the plan"
- collective unconscious strikes again
- development of systematized means of accelerating the development of culture
  - by identifying the conditions that allow society to study and develop knowledge
    - stability, tradition, virtues, ...
    - a healthy economy
  - then identifying a geographically shielded location close to the center of the world
- establishment of systems of self-preservation for this culture
  - no one leaves, unless authorizes

## Part 3


preface the article by defining how this is 'speculative history'
- state that it couldn't be true
  - for the same reason that batman couldn't hang out with the xmen
  - save for part 3

### 4,000 BC

development of the plan

### 3,000 BC

back to harappa
- proto-anthropology
  -

### 2,000 BC

paradise lost

previous disasters:
- cro magnon? neanderthal?

topics to mention:
- sicilian monolith
- bathymetry maps
  - how much of this should i cover?
- evolution of langauge through proto-anthropologists
- the indended purpose behind development of mythology
  - epic of gilgamesh (city vs country, city wins?)
- harrapans didn't seem to have war or much conflict at all

topics to research:
- extent & time period of sumerian civilization
  - established written law code around 1,800BC w/ hammurabi
- order of events in the bible
- epic of gilgamesh (plot, themes, timeline and inspiration from the early world)
- relationship b/w sumeria and harrapans
  - trading with sumerians as early as 3,500BC (from crash course
    video)

the harrapan culture that created "the plan":
- a segment of harrapan culture in the himalayan steppes
  - close to the mouth of the indus river
  - a civilization that witnessed many of their neighbors' societies
    perish in floods, leaving no trace
- this society become wise enough to understand the cause of the
  floods.  they knew that the causes behind them would not last
  forever
  - they identified a location that would provide water and sustenance
    but was mostly guarded from flooding damage
    - they intentionally picked a place that was high in the mountains
      because it would be nearly impossible to invade.
    - thus, their culture and the cultures they studied and protected
      would be shielded from the chaos of warfare
  - from here, they developed a plan to prevent such widespread loss
    of culture. to them, nothing was more tragic than the
    disappearance of culture.  nothing, except the subversion of it.
    - was their choice to disappear a response to subversion by
      conquerors?
    - or was it because they were afraid that knowledge of their
      society would lead back to knowledge they were trying to protect
      the world against? i.e. leading humanity to a premature
      discovery of 'the plan' or of forbidden maths.
  . also, from here, high up in the world, they observed cultures rise
      and fall, languages grew and subsided while their culture
      persisted
  - they also understood the curse of overpopulation and, by learning
    the highest of maths, they understood the inevitable progression
    of technology into artificial intelligence.
    - this insight was accessible since well before the first
      mechanical computers.  all that is necessary is the knowledge
      that it is possible for a machine or even a system to be created
      in the image of man's mind.
    - from their wisdom, knowing this and knowing the heart of man,
      they determined that the development of such an artificial mind
      could lead to utopia or to the destruction of mankind
- and to protect against overpopulation, they determined that
  disasters early in man's history would be more effective in staving
  off the dangers of overpopulation
  - should i continue describing this aspect of overpopulation?  it's
    pretty fucking grim. nothing good would come of people knowing the
    truth
- anyways, the development of a plan to ensure the survival of mankind
  began. it became known to them ....
  - they developed protocols to be preserved unconsciously through
    mythology
    - protocols for propagating information back to 'the origin,'
      though the origin was hardly intended to be a physical place


development of hidden maths throughout history

- I don't have much evidence to back up my claims here, but
  it'd be very interesting to examine the prevelence of
  mathematic knowledge throughout the world.
- Particularly, it'd be interesting to study in context with
  both the transmission of ideas through the active cultural
  relationships and the dependency graph for various
  mathematics.
- That is, since throughout history it's been advantageous to
  restrict the propagation of *some* mathematics, and thus,
  the extent of this knowledge is often lost to history.
- But we may be able to learn more about what these cultures knew --
  *paleo-epistemology*, lulz -- by making some inferences into the
  nature of mathematics and inferring how their models and notation
  systems would restrict their thought and progress in some areas of
  math.

harrapan technology:

- some homes were connected to a centralized drainage system that used gravity to carry waste
- in mahenjo-daro, the largest building was a bathhouse
- they traded cotton cloth
- their way of life was dependent on a consistent flooding cycle (twice per year)
  - does this result from flooding from glaciation?
  - would they have been able to observe and predict a change in water flow from a melting glacier?
- did harrapans know about and observe climate change?

- personal beliefs on the transmission of culture throughout the world around 3,000 B.C.
  - that mostly lack evidence by the way
  - harappan civilization was created in the ancient world after the 'center' of the ancient world was identified
    - over the course of 1,000 years (starting ~4,000 B.C.) -- timeline is not too important here
      - after the cataclysm wiped out most of seaside human civilization
      - after the archetype of cataclysm wiping out human civilization was fresh in our minds
        - therefore we would have been determined to ensure it would not happen again
    - it is possible for humantity to unconsciously cooperate, even with limited communication
    - we would have spread culture and myth to 'advertise' this place
      - where great thinkers would go to develop technology
      - this could have occured through the development of myth over the course of 1,000-1,500 years
    - the 'center' of the world would have needed to be mostly known by this point
      - people understanding tradecraft would have understood that the 'center' of the world
        - would offer the most opportunity,
          - as that would have the greatest amount of aggregate human dispersion
        - this is only understandable after developing moderate maths
          - but still before developing widespread written language
            - there's a difference between written language and written communication
    - the most powerful information to have at this time would be geographic information
      - and accurate geographic information.
      - elements of mythology from this time should reflect this.
      - where are the most valuable resources?
        - how can we be sure? how many people know?
        - where does the land end?  does it ever?
        - how do we know where we are? how do we know where we should go? (the stars)
        - if the center is where the power is, how do we know where the center is?
    - and because multiple civilizations would be able to develop an understanding of:
      - (1) the center of the world being the most powerful and offering the most opportunity
      - (2) as well as the estimated direction towards the center
      - then with these two ideas these precivilizations could push emmisaries towards the center of the world
        - first, to establish communication networks with the rest of the world
        - second to accelerate the development of technology and culture
      - and most importantly, the more advanced minor precivilizations would do this unconsciously
        - and if they were wise enough to anticipate other culture's understanding of these ideas
          - they could do so with anticipation that others would be there to meet them in the center!
          - again, WITH NO COMMUNICATION.  based solely on metaphysics and wisdom.
  - so i believe this was the plan, spontaneously developed across the world after the pain of the cataclysm
    - after people had experienced the sum of antiquity
      - and the aggregate developments of their ancestry just simply vanish into nothingness
    - i believe this is what cultivated the desire of ancient civilizations
      -  to want to 'leave their mark' with monolithic archetecture
    - they had experienced the pain of losing everything
      - that pain transmuted itself into a universal archetype
    - and so, they pushed to find a way to ensure that it never happened again
      - while simultaneously understanding the problem of exponential growth and overpopulation
      - overpopulation and the cataclysm are two primative arche
        - from the dawn of humanity at the end of the ice age
        - these factor into our actions at a collective unconscious level
  - and so "the plan" was to develop human culture and technology to limit the suffering of the world
    - to limit the global trauma of overpopulation, while ensuring survival in the face of the next catastrophe
  - and so there are many cultural tools and treasures developed during the harappan civilization at the time
    - the civilization had plumbing and other amazing technologies.  basically the equivalent of rome
      - i wonder whether this civilization was planned in a region they knew would run out of water eventually
    - i believe that they vigorously studied linguistics that the time.
      - linguistics would have been fascinating.
      - to develop culture tools to ensure humanitys survival, they would have found linguistics invaluable.
      - they would have assessed the properties, pros and cons of various linguistic forms (SVO/SOV/VSO/etc)
    - and i believe it is here that we find the mystery of babel (and the mystery of the proto-indo-european)
      - all the world developed a universal language here.  it would have been invaluable to do so
        - therefore, all the languages began to come together into one
      - however, this unity invites advantage in developing discord.
        - accents and microdialects are developed in cities today
          - with the purpose of creating a system of communication that is difficult for others to understand
        - therefore, the unity of a universal language, invites the development of competing languages
      - so, one language was created, then other competing languages were subversively cultivated
        - here, you have would typically have many languages created at first,
        - then one of those languages would become superior and would become the prime competing language
    - this unified langauge wouldn't immediately be transmitted to the rest of the world of course,
      - but as the prime source of culture that impregnated the world, it's effect would be adumbrating
  - evidence of these lingual developments can be found in sanskrit
    - sankrit as a written language was specifically developed to capture nearly every possible human sound
      - there are 7 different vowels and 2 variations of each for a total of fourteen
      - the language elegantly handles digraphs/trigraphs and universally captures all of those sounds
    - i believe that the original harappan language vanished because of this
      - and this is mostly my prime basis for all these beliefs, which are mostly extensions of this
    - the harappans studied language more than anything else and developed this perfect universal language
      - captured in sanskrit. which could be used to capture and study other languages
      - to facilitate the development of the perfect language
  - however, out of the study of language in this civilization,
    - i believe another thing happened that would be missed by most
    - and this is that the particular advantages/disadvantages and the facets of each lingual structure
      - would have been vigorously studied by the intelligentsia of the time.  (making them more intelligent)
      - these people would have been incredibly wise.
    - and i believe they crafted a plan to resolve a debate on language/culture
      - and to provide humanity with cultural tools to recombine thousands of years later
        - that altogether these cultural tools would be far more powerful than any one would be alone
        - but that if any one of these were to absolutely rule over the others before we were ready
        - their descendents would end up creating a terrible homogenous world
      - and so they seeded regions of the earth with various forms of language and culture,
        - isolating them from having too much influence on each other
        - but still allowing adjacent cultures to merge and mix and combinate
      - they would have needed to know the extent of geography very well.
        - at least knowing the old world very, very well (and likely of the existance of the new world)
        - this would be greatly facilitated by the cultural apparatus that created harappa in the first place
          - as well as by the trade and commerce that helped it push forward
      - they would have picked the most basic, most primal elements of language and culture
        - they would have known that if they succeeded in rolling this plan out
          - that competition would keep civilizations in contained and none would gain too much superiority
      - i think they may have also decided to make their civilization vanish,
        - although i can't quite decide on why that is
  - this protocivilization would have also understood the problems of agriculture and resource limitations
    - and once the harappan civilization was doomed (by earthquake or whatever)
      - they would have been motivated to develop some kind of plan to avoid catastrophe

and this is where the story for the wise arch-mage came from
- who was born in an ancient, but doomed world
- and who divided a great magic into 7 forms to be spread to the corners of the earth
  - to be hidden in plain view until the world was ready
  - and until the world had a great need to unite these magic forms into one
  - which he knew would occur at the same time, the most critical time for our development


### links

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etana
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sumerian_King_List#The_list
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chronology_of_the_ancient_Near_East
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shuruppak
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ancient_literature
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proto-writing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kish_tablet
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_communication
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semiotics
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ferdinand_de_Saussure
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Computational_semiotics
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_linguistics
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chalcolithic
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metallurgy_during_the_Copper_Age_in_Europe
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhirrana
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kalibangan
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Indus_Valley_Civilisation_sites
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohenjo-daro
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rudnik_(mountain)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timna_Valley
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gulf_of_Aqaba
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vin%C4%8Da_culture
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Black_Sea_deluge_hypothesis
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aegean_Sea
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Outburst_flood#Lake_Bonneville
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Caspian_Sea#History
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naphtha#Etymology
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedas
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedic_Sanskrit
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indo-Aryan_peoples
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Substratum_in_Vedic_Sanskrit
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bactria%E2%80%93Margiana_Archaeological_Complex
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indus_Valley_Civilisation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andronovo_culture
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proto-Indo-European_language
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vedic_Sanskrit
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Black-Sea-NASA.jpg
http://emvc.geol.ucsb.edu/2_infopgs/IP2IceAge/ePersGulfFlood.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dravidian_peoples
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indo-Iranians#Genetics
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_ancient_Egypt#Neolithic_Egypt
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sahara#History
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tassili_n%27Ajjer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Archaeoastronomy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cataracts_of_the_Nile
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diluvium
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laas_Geel
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/9th_millennium_BC
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jericho#Ancient_period
http://arstechnica.com/science/2015/12/irelands-population-underwent-a-dramatic-change-4000-years-ago/
