---
title: "Is Chaos Aware? Is Chaos Alive?"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

There is a novel paradigm for programming, for which the name is
elusive. It seems like a subject of research in theoretical computer
science. It describes systems of genetic programs built on the
foundations of molecular dynamics. It also helps describe systems in
social physics.

Particle systems are known to be dynamical and to display ergodicity,
under some situations. These systems can also be non-linear and thus
are chaotic, implying that minor changes in starting conditions can
result in unpredictable fluctations in system behavior.

### Genetic Programs

Genetic systems have spatially distributed state, where the state can
be modeled as the binary presence or absence of some molecule in a
given range of space for every point. Additional information is
relavant to the system's mechanics, such as the molecule's physical
orientation relative to adjacent molecules. Thus, these are also
relevant to the spatially distributed state. This state is similar to
a program's closure -- the variables accessible to its total
environment or scope.

The arrangement of specific types of molecules in a cell's nucleus
determines the likelihood of interactions between adjacent
particles. Each one of these molecular interactions unfolds in a
unique way, but maps to a set of event types. One such event would be
the activation of an enzyme's active site. There's a limitless degree
of variation in how the event unfolds, but we recognize the result as
being logically the same. This is because the specifics of the
interaction map to idealized representations of the event type.

These interactions change the state of the local space in logically
significant ways, which dramatically alters the likelihood of
subsequent events. To reach for a programming metaphor, you can think
of this as a function that executes with side effects, modifying some
variable external to the function scope.

In genetic systems, general types of events include enzyme activation,
DNA transcription, epigenetic modifications, chromatin
transformations, miRNA/piRNA RNA amplification, and many others. When
RNA polymerase transcribes DNA, producing a strand of mRNA, this
increases the likelihood this mRNA will be translated. The more copies
of this mRNA the likely they are to result in result in protein
products, whether the copies originate from transcription or
amplification.

Molecular dynamics is computationally prohibitive. Even determining
the structure of some proteins from amino acid sequences can be
challenging because of this and other reasons. If we simplify the
system, we can reason about it more intuitively. For example, one
could simplify the spatially distributed state to binary presence &
absence of products that interact with nearby products.

By using models of varying complexity, we can design and develop these
genetic programs that operate in sufficiently similar ways, despite
the lack of deterministic behavior. What kind of programming paradigm
is this?

Humanity has been trying to understand the origins of life for
millenia and we're getting very close. Why do these patterns of
behavior emerge in the chaotic system of molecular dynamics? Why do
logically similar representations of particle configurations --
i.e. molecules -- emerge in similar proportions, despite dramatic
variations in their positions in the system. The system isn't defined
by the specific molecular arrangements alone because this can vary
widely and life can handle it.

### Sifting Through Configurational Entropy

# For A Digital Signiture

As genetic programs execute, this leads to predictable changes in the
distribution and entropy for both molecular configuration and
conformation in the system. These distributions over time would more
closely distinguish one genetic program from another. Identifying
patterns over time get us closer. Spatially distributed state and
configurational changes are the visible prints of probabilistic state
machines whose states are composed of types and metatypes. These state
machines represent kinds of hierarchical event-driven behavior
throughout the system.

These are non-linear and non-deterministic chaotic systems. Their
behavior is definitively unpredictable and sometimes divergent, but by
deconstructing their event-driven aspects, they are programmable,
yielding a new paradigm: chaotic programming. While,
[Chaos computing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chaos_computing)
describes the possibility of logic gates that emerge from chaotic
systems and it's unclear if these are the building blocks for programs
in chaos.

### Why Does Order Emerge from Chaos?

Under what circumstances does order emerge from chaos? Does it always
present with stratification and interwoven hierarchical
self-similarity? When do the fractal features begin to react to
themselves, reflecting their own images back into themselves? This is
what leads to higher levels of order in chaos. If chaotic systems
yield order that compels some form of ergodicity to emerge, is it
truly chaotic?

What is meant by information representations in systems of molecular
dynamics? Examples of these include quark configurations of the
standard model or molecules of atoms. The representations of both can
be combinatorially enumerated from primatives. In reality, each
molecule is different in subtle ways. The atoms will engage in
characteristic modes of vibration, especially after bonding
covalently, but these patterns of vibration are imprinted with
residual information related to the specifics of the atomic
interactions that created the molecule. As always, quantum mechanics
further complicates everything.

Glucose is made of six carbons and twelve hydrogens. every glucose
molecule is distinct, but for any collection of these 18 atoms that
are close enough, we can measure their similarity or distance from an
idealized glucose conformation. Still, even though each glucose
molecule might have idiosyncratic patterns of vibration, subtly
influencing their transitions between conformations, we still consider
the six-carbon ring a glucose molecule, whatever non-linear transient
physical deformation it might be in.

This group's quality of glucose-ness is emergent, but still maps to
the branching, combinatorially enumerable, metaphysical forms, whose
definition is constant throughout time and space.  These forms become
increasingly diverse, as do the emergent dynamics whose action depends
moreso on the symbolic identity of the representation than the
constituent parts of the representation.

Are the definitions of molecules defined outside the chaotic system?
Imagine a simulated system with mechanics similar to molecular
dynamics. In such systems, increasingly complicated forms emerge, some
of which could be externally defined, yet this is not necessary.  A
handwritten digit recognition network does not know anything about
digits or handwriting. Likewise, the simulated chaotic system above
can have mechanics based on emergent forms, which may or may not be
defined externally. Still, internal or external, the dynamics of the
system are dependent on the emergence and interaction of these forms,
which become stratified in more layers.

At higher levels of order, from molecules to genetics to multicellular
organisms, the structure of matter has a greater range of influence on
the system, which itselfs drives ineffibility. The mechanics of the
system, especially in animals or entities with awareness, become
decoupled from the mechanics that define the constituent parts. Yet,
further reflections of its forms refracted through the mechanics of
the chaotic system itself will always yield higher order over
time.

That is, this kind of chaotic system will always build higher levels
of abstaction in form, which can be internal or external. For the
purposes of programming, the forms can be externalized to optimize the
initial state of the system, against the complexity of chaos. This can
allow us to identify systems which guarantee stability for
increasingly higher stratification of form, where the stability can
begin to be itself driven by the order within chaos. Eventually that
order must yield dynamics reinforcing reactivity to the system itself,
giving rise to system's awareness of itself.

Chaotic systems whose behavior is parameterized by representations of
information internal to the system always have the capability to
produce increasingly higher levels of order within them. Can we be
certain that, given a degree of stability, these
representation-reflecting chaotic systems always produce behavior
increasingly dependent on the representations themselves? Does this
mean that some chaotic systems will, with certainty, produce order,
then stability, then hierarchical stratification of internal state
representations and finally awareness or life?

Are such systems required to be a certain size or have a density and
rate of element interactions? To study this in particular, it would
require an analogy to
[Ramsey Theory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramsey_theory) for
information representations and order in chaotic systems.

What thresholds of stability, structure and form render awareness
possible? Does this imply that higher-order phenomena of some systems,
like awareness, intelligence, consciousness and language, are
themselves ergodic under some conditions? For these systems, is chaos
itself alive? Are there mathematic systems which produce these
phenomena, given enough running time?

What does this mean about the technological singularity? Is this our
planet's local ergodic destination?
