---
title: "Clinton/Trump on the Economy"
categories: blog
tags: "anthropology linguistics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

so... Clinton can't manage the state department enough to know what's
going on, she doesn't display accountability when things go wrong,
time after time. Neither her or Bill said anything about the housing
boom when it was going on. They both implicitly supported
Fannie/Freddie, which is precisely what caused the overallocation of
investment in the housing crisis. Her husband signed NAFTA and the
legislation that removed the #GlassSteagall firewall
banking/investment in the late 90's. Neither sought to prevent Federal
Reserve interest rates from steadily dropping in the 1990's and
2000's.

If you're pissed about the way things are going in this country i want
you to ask yourself, what would I give up to fix it? Would you stand
up against injustice, knowing the cost? Even if you were criticized,
discredited, humiliated or ostracized? Would you stand up for justice,
regardless of the rewards or influence you might reap for doing the
right thing? The right thing to do isn't defined by what we might
gain: attention, power, money. Too often, politicians chasing some
bigger dream forget that it's the little things that matter
most. Every time you cross a line, it becomes a little easier to cross
the next time. We shouldn't be willing to give an inch on our values
to gain a yard if we risk losing a mile.  Like 路 Reply 路 Just now
David Conner David Conner So again, if you're pissed about what has
happened in America in the past decade, what have you done about it?
Look around you. Who was telling the truth? Who was the loudest? Were
they at the top of their game? What was their message and why? Were
the loudest among us correct? What have the consequences been for not
speaking up in the past few decades?

Now find that person who did speak up and didn't care what it cost him
or her, regardless of whether you agree. Did that person listen to
you? Did they care about your problems? Were they passionate about
things? Was that person consistently years ahead of the game? Did they
keep their information for themselves to profit from it? What did a
person like that gain from it?

WHAT DID A PERSON LIKE THAT LOSE BECAUSE THEY UNDERSTOOD, LISTENED,
DREAMED ... AND THEY DARED TO STAND UP? In the past few decades, what
happened to people like that? Why should we be surprised that no one
wants to speak the truth?  Like 路 Reply 路 Just now David Conner David
Conner America has a cultural problem and we have to fix it at the
root. We are disillusioned, tired and demoralized. If we want to turn
things around, we have to address our cultural problems. We attack
these problems in the short term and long term and it starts with
education and service. We need to fix education, address poverty and
cultivate respect for ethics, talent and hard work.

Or we need to get used to another superpower being in total
control. And that's really your choice in this election. Do we make
America great again? Or do we continue liquidating American industry
and economic advantage for a quick shot in the arm? Our
service-oriented economy needs to become more robust by diversifying
with a return to economically viable, competitive Made in America
products. Easier than it sounds, but the economy of the future isn't
as interdependent as the global economy is now. In other words,
countries trade less in general. So, in 2025, a service-oriented
economy dependent on high level services with little to no industry
isn't going to do very well in a world with lower import/export
totals...

Which America is going to be better prepared for 2025? The one that
took the easy way out and continued to siphon off its industry for a
quick fix by depending on credit and trade from other countries? Or
the America that got on the grind to restore its industrial capacity?

Which politician is going to America what we need to hear? Which
politician is going to be problematic for our economy? In 2020? 2030?
