---
title: "What Coursera and Free Education Meant For Me"
---

Classes Completed:
- Bioinformatics I
- Bioinformatics II
- Crypto I (didn't take the final)
- Drugs in the Brain
- Machine Learning

Classes Dabbled:
- Neuromarketing
- Linguistics
- Several others

After I dropped out of college, I studied Cisco Networking and got my
CCNA.  I knew a lot about the internet, but for a long time, I didn't
realize what I'd given up by dropping out.  As a programmer, I was
mostly autodidactic, so I developed a strong understanding of content
I learned, but it took me a lot longer because I didn't have anyone to
direct me to the right resources.  I missed out on a lot of learning
by not being part of a large tech community like Silicon Valley.  On
the other hand, I enjoy struggling on problems and trying to find the
answer myself before looking it up.

In early 2012, I found Coursera's Machine Learning class. It was
mentioned in a blog somewhere. I had tried other free online classes
the year before, but they weren't organized very well and it didn't
look like they were well funded. Andrew Ng's Machine Learning class
was a complete 180, with an active community of students, programming
assignments and an automated submission system.  I had taken linear
algebra in college.  It was one of the few classes I aced, but I had
forgotten mostly everything.  By taking the Machine Learning class, I
developed a strong sense of what was possible with AI.  I still
remember the aha moment I had, when I realized that neural networks
didn't understand the context of the data they learned -- they just
worked.  I had to take a step back to think for a few hours in order
to philosophize and discover how this was possible.

Dan Boneh's Crypto class provided me with a framework with which I
could generically analyze weak areas in information systems.  For
example, regardless of the algorithm, don't put too much trust in hard
drive encryption.  I finished the coursework for this class, but
didn't take the exam because I wanted to retake the class to get an A.

Dr Lester's Drugs in the Brain class was very enjoyable and helped me
understand how drugs actually work.  I learned about mechanisms that I
didn't previously understand, by which the brain rebalances itself in
response to altered neurotransmitter levels through the production of
additional receptors.  It really stimulated my imagination.  The
University of Copenhagen's Neuromarketing course provided an
interesting look into both the brain and into future marketing
techniques.

I always wanted to study Bioinformatics and Coursera gave me the
chance to do that.  I worked especially hard on some of the problems
in this class, trying to figure out how to parallelize the algorithm
with a GPU.  One problem we tackled was sequencing DNA, which
beforehand, I never knew to be so complicated.  These classes and
especially the Epigenetics class spurred my imagination by exposing me
to very recently developed ideas.  One of the best parts of the
Epigenetics class was the community of students in the discussion
forums online.  Afterwards we established a Facebook group and we're
still connecting there.

The Epigenetics class inspired me to develop a theory that explains
genetics as a probabilistic program, where disparate segments of
functionality are randomly executed to affect the overall state of the
system and the system physically compartmentalizes state in order to
isolate units of genetic code similar to how an operating system
isolates processes.  I've looked into probabilistic programming, which
in fact does exist and is being developed for AI, but it is only
tangentially related to the kind of programming I'm talking about.  I
haven't heard of anyone modeling genetics in this way and I hope to
blog about it soon, but it's an overwhelming amount of content.

Programmers can be categorized by their education and mindset.  There
are the algorithmic programmers, to whom there is a prescribed
solution to every problem.  To them, most problems they face have been
solved before, if not by them, then by others.  They can easily break
the problem up into a few algorithms or patterns and quickly implement
a solution.  The flip side is the hacker, to whom every problem is
different.  They usually hack apart pieces of functionality and glue
them together.  They're often self taught, they dig into details and
are very resourceful.  They probably haven't read Knuth's The Art of
Computer Programming.  The best programmers are those who embody both.

Every class I've completed on Coursera has provided me with a wealth
of knowledge I otherwise simply wouldn't have the opportunity to
learn. And the inferences I'm able to make from this help me make
sense of the technology technology will take in the future. My only
regret is that I haven't had the time to complete more classes.  I
haven't had a job in a while, but I've been hard at work on other
projects. To me, it's strange that I haven't been able to convince my
family how worthwhile these programs are.  Just five years ago, they
were more than willing to help me spend tens of thousands on an
education, but they haven't been very supportive when I mention that
I'm taking free classes online.

If you have a college degree, continuing education through Coursera is
a great way to show that you're continuing to refresh and expand your
skill set.  Technology, Medicene and Engineering are continually
revolutionized and this is only accelerating.  It's easy to get behind
and, after attending the 2015 VT Hacks event at Virginia Tech, I found
myself intimidated by sophomore engineering students ten years younger
than myself.  I'm worried about being outclassed by the next
generation of college graduates and I think this trend is going to
continue.

But, the truth is, to many organizations, having certifications from
Coursera isn't the same thing as having a college degree.  So for me,
it's not going to fill in that gap, but I'm on Coursera for myself.
I've found that I'm not happy without knowing how all this amazing
stuff in our world works.  Math especially helps me make sense of the
world.  It's frustrating that I find myself asking questions that I
can't answer, nor do I know very many people who can.  I'm hoping to
learn about Functional Analysis, Abstract Algebra, Category Theory and
other forms of math, so I'm still far behind there.  I need to learn
more about developing statistical models, but there's some great
Coursera classes for that.

I'm passionate about linguistics and it's analogies to programming
languages.  I dabbled in a linguistics class and it's one of my
favorite topics.  I would never have been able to do that otherwise.
There are so many ideas that I've discovered through these classes
that have just been invaluable in understanding the world and
predicting the development of technology.  For example, I knew that
GPU's were going to be huge for machine learning (as did so many other
people) but I was able to see how GPU's would be useful in cars to
assist automated driving algorithms.  Now nVidia is developing
specialized GPU's for cars.  I never would have made connections like
that if I didn't take the Machine Learning class.
