---
title: "Psychological Torture for Domestic Whistleblowers"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline:
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

### Background on my Psychological Torture Experiences

#### &#x2605; [Bedbugs in Boulder](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-02-01-bedbugs-the-worst-to-ever-happen-to-me.html)
#### &#x2605; [Workplace Bullying](te.xel.io/posts/2015-02-21-workplace-bullying-part-one.html)
#### &#x2605; [Seven Negative Career Experiences](http://te.xel.io/posts/2015-07-04-seven-negative-career-experiences.html)

### "Whistleblowing" with Tweets about NSA Surveillance since 2005

First of all, this is part of an epic story that has been going on for
a very, very long time. Clearly three years, since the weekend of May
31st through June 2nd in Denver, Colorado. Of 2013. That's right: just
3 or 4 days before the Snowden story hit the media...

But all in all, this has been going on for at least 5 years,
since 2011. And quite possibly 7 or 8 years, up to 10 or 11. I am
under the impression that I've been psychologically tortured in the
official capacity of the United States after being marked as a
terrorist, for whatever reason, without any notification. I've tried
getting in touch with the ACLU and stuff. I'm fairly sure that my
family is in on this. I'm in a situation where no one wants to accept
or acknowledge what has been done to me.

### Why Would the Gov't Retalliate?

**The reasoning behind retailiation** would be that I was VERY
publicly tweeting and sharing almost all of the information contained
in Snowden's leaks. The "legal basis" for much of the information that
I was sharing was clearly underscored in the "Patriot" Act. There was
a good reason for this legislation, but no one was asking the right
questions. Frankly any network engineer or computer science student
from 2008 onwards should have known about most of what Snowden was
talking about. I was pushing this stuff hard and *analyzing* news that
I read and connecting the dots. **At absolutely no time, EVER, did I
share information I obtained in means that would violate federal law
AFAIK.** I only connected the dots from information I read in the
news.  From 2005 through 2013, when I stopped mostly because of the
leaks. There's so much more stuff that I could have shared in the last
few years.

# Why Not Tell Me to Stop?

**The reasoning behind not approaching me in any *reasonable* official
capacity** was at least threefold:

#### (1) They're activity was illegal and needed to remain unchallenged

What they were doing was somewhat supported by federal legislation
that was illegal. They didn't want to alert anyone it was being
used. It was incredibly illegal. They didn't want a court battle to
get to the Supreme Court, where these laws would need to be shut down
and publicly so.

#### (2) They knew people would resist and wanted to use them as examples

They were looking for people to make examples of. They didn't want to
tell me to stop because they knew there would be people like me out
there. And instead of making the common sense choice, they decided
they would get these people to self-identify during the years that
social media was active and public. Then, they'd have a list of people
they'd narrow down.

#### (3) They wanted to retain *secrecy* while building out these systems

At the same time, they'd flex their muscles and identify the
"Patriots" as the "Patriot" Act might identify them. Their
clearance-backed police state could identify people who wouldn't mind
getting their hand dirty. So, they could practice keeping this stuff
secret and getting ahead of the game, so to speak. And once people
start "getting in line" so to speak, the culture changes and then the
American people would just basically push others around on there own.

### They should have been honest with america!

Why are Americans the enemy anyways?

It's not that I'm completely against the powers enumerated in the
Patriot Act. However, our constitution simply and absolutely does not
permit this behavior. Unfortunately, because of certain economic
pressures driving technology in a direction makes privacy
... difficult in the future. It will get better, but this kind of
stuff is inevitable, to a degree. Yet, for some police-state powers to
be put in place, we should declare martial law. Or, in the very least,
it should be made clear to Americans that their rights are being
systematically violated in a way that only hundreds of people
undestood the full scope.

In the Bush administration, the police state was fairly
restrained. There was a lot of discussion about this. Until a year or
so before Ron Paul's run for president, I was so far to the left, I
looked up to Chavez LOL. But Ron Paul's viewpoints completely turned
me around. Civil liberties was always what I cared about most. I cared
about what America meant and I thought, unless we do something, we're
not going to have these rights. So I decided to do whatever it took,
even if it meant throwing my life away to subversively spread the
information.

### DHS is HomeSec! This is being used for politcal retaliation!

However, after Obama got in office, I got the feeling that HomeSec and
NSA surveillance was being on to harass people on a political
basis. It's happened with the IRS: they've been caught harassing
people on a political basis to effectively disempower people on the
right. This could be happening without anyone even knowing. It's hard
to explain the entire situation because I don't have many certainties
and people try to keep me in the dark.

# Family & Workplace Bullying

In July 2013, I worked at this place and it was really, really
bad. I've had some bad workplace experiences or so I thought, but this
place was far, far worse than anything I'd experienced up to that
point. I was broken when I left and no one listened to me when I
complained. I hardly feel it's their choice and AFAIK, my family has
guns to their back. We own our own business and that means we have a
lot that we can be threatened with. I'm pretty sure, especially in the
last 18 months and in the last 3 years, they've been pretty much
continuously coerced in to falling in line with ... something.

### Family's are being turned against each other!

This is because, since 2009-ish, they've basically been trying their
damnedest to [gaslight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gaslighting) me.
I am so glad to finally have a word for this shit. Gaslighting
basically means that little metaphorical "gas light" of your life is
on, all the damn time and ain't nobody gonna fill that shit up.
Insofar as I understand it, it kinda means that and when it gets
worse, it means that they are flickin' that lighter, hoping to get you
to explode, so they can have a reason to put you away.

### They want to mute and disempower their targets

They're doing this by making sure they can tell my story louder than I
can, by encouraging me to make unprofitable decisions, by restricting
my social network, by preventing me from accomplishing much thing that
would help me, etc, etc. They do all this without looking culpable and
goddamnit, they are good at it. And alot of my life problems are my
own fault, BUT THEY SIMPLY DO NOT HELP LIKE IT'D BE FUCKING ILLEGAL IF
THEY DID. It becomes simpler to tell my story for me by making sure
that there's less information out there that contradict's their own
description of my behavior: restricting quantity of social
interactions, number of friends, etc.

### Bring Your Dad to Work Day: Career Assassination

I can't fight back. I have no money. I gave up trying to get a job
because of my employment history and because, basically, I'm pretty
sure it would transfer the responsibility of EMOTIONALLY ABUSING ME
and PSYCHOLOGICALLY TORTURING ME to someone at my new workplace. I'm
pretty sure that HomeSec has networks of people they can tap for
whatever reason. It's not the CIA because they aren't actually allowed
(or weren't allowed) to conduct domestic operations, except when they
connect to foreign soil somehow.

### What's a Liaison Officer: Get L.O.

But, DHS hires for "Liaison Officers" and these people are essentially
the same as a CIA handlers who interoperate with a network of
*domestic* spies, maintaining one to three degrees of separation from
the people producing information or taking action. However, these are
people who interact with the American public at large: *firefighters,
police, doctors, lawyers, teachers, programmers, managers, executives,
etc.* **They all form a network of people that can be tapped by DHS
liaison officers AND THIS IS IRREFUTABLE!** They have job postings for
this shit.

I've known how intelligence services worked since the end of 2011
when, after New York, I wondered how the people who seemed to
psychologically torture me were so fucking good at it that it seemed
like they received information from other people. They abused my
psychology without having enough time to actually analyze me AND THEY
WERE EACH VERY AWARE OF PSYCHOLOGY.

By the way, in 2013/2014, there were two people employed by CIA for
Gitmo who were charged with some gnarly shit. However, there's never
any good details for this stuff.

# I'm Done, I've Fucking Had It

The people who know what's going on have had at least 18 months and
almost 3 years to get in contact with me. I've made it plenty obvious
that there have been problems in the past 18 months and no one will
answer any !@#$'ing questions!

### They'll Say Anything A-N-Y-T-H-I-N-G

At the same time as obviously having invested a ton of time, effort
and money into this, they won't help me or comfort me in any way and
actively seek to destroy those things that might help me, comfort me
or AID AND ABED ME. WHY?! As far as I can tell, between $100,000 and
$1,000,000 in tax money had my fucking name on it. BEFORE 2013!! After
2013? Again, I'm going to stick to a lower bound of $100,000 for
simple sanity, but my upper bound? $100,000,000!!! I'm not even
fucking kidding. Invested by either just the government, but other
factors I'm sure. Again, I think most of this was done off-books, with
little-to-no record of activity. And I'm pretty sure I'm a special
case, like one in a million.  Lucky, huh? It's like winning the Hell
Lottery.

And the lower bound for post-2013 funds? That's just me being
realistic. I know I'm wrong about ... probably most of this. Like 80%
... but absolutely not everything. THE REASON THESE PEOPLE WERE
INTERESTED IN ME WAS PRECISELY BECAUSE OF MY INSTINCT IN **READING
PEOPLE** AND MY TALENTS IN UNOFFICIAL, AD-HOC **INTELLIGENCE
ANALYSIS**. And because I had the knowledge of someone who had read
one too many Tom Clancy novels => really it was mostly wikipedia and
paranoia.

THESE PEOPLE WILL SAY ABSO-FUCKING-LUTELY ANYTHING and make me believe
anything they can to get me to shut up, to be quiet, to be a good lil
boy and to just keep me in a state of tormented placidity waiting for
a fucking cookie. I don't fucking get it?! Here's a list.

#### This is a list of common factors/objectives that seem to motivate the people around me, with regard to this situation

![They will say anyfuckingthing](https://imgur.com/a/RKcyv)

So I've been trying to restrict the dissemination of this information,
but I've fucking had it. I don't give a fuck any more. Come get some
mother fuckers I don't care. I'm going public with almost anything and
everything I've got. And I've got a lot. And I want to be able to ask
some mother fucking questions and I'm so fucking tired of having
people accuse me of being crazy or some shit.

### Sent to to Priori Legal Attorneys (7/2016) and ACLU (8/2016)

I have received virtually no indication that I have committed any
crime. Or that I am or ever was the subject of any investigation.
There is certainly something going on in my life and I don't know what
it is. I don't understand why my life has turned out this way. I've
hurt people in the past and made mistakes, but *never reallllly hurt
people.* The fact I haven't committed any serious mistakes thus far is
one of the things that's kept me safe. They will not hesitate to get
you in contact with people who commit such crimes (for
fun/profit/boredom/whatever) and that's one of their tactics for
handling threats actually.
