---
title: "... Experimental Psychology"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

### Implanted Memories

One possible explanation for a patient who exhibits a high number of
seemingly real false memories is that the person's mind had a partial
breakdown in the regulation of memory creation/association mechanism.
This breakdown in regulation for neural/mental association could
either be psychological or neurological. This breakdown could be
associated with one major event. The event needs to have a very, very
strong emotional relevance for the person. Severe trauma or some
equally extreme positive event.

### Repressed Memories Lead to Higher Incidence of Fallacious Memories

One psychological cause would be activation of repressed memories with
significance across the person's mind and life. If someone were to
suddenly rediscover some memories with a high magnitude of effect on
the rest of their mind/life, then I hypothesize it could lead to the
breakdown of such regulation of memory creation/association. That is,
new events which are related in some way to the original event have a
much higher likelihood of causing false memories to be created.

This means that when a sign or symbol semantically adjacent to the
effected memory is invoked in the person's mind, the person's
psychology is more likely to cause new memories. This could be caused
by hijacking the neurology of the person: the brain may tend to prefer
to rationalize memories that lack some dimensions. i.e. if there are
semantic components without the accompanying visual or audio
components, then (since this dimensional incoherence is so rare) the
brain may react by attempting to explain away the discrepency by
creating those dimensional fragments. In other words, the person's
brain/mind may create the accompanying audio/visual fragments of those
memories to fill in the gaps in an attempt to preserve coherence of
the memory.

### Neurological Mechanisms for Memory "Implantation"

There are several possible neurological causes, including tumor or
TMS. A brain tumor could cause a similar breakdown of memory
creation/association regulation. This is unlikely because of how
memories are sharded along dimensional boundaries and distributed
across the brain. (i.e. the audio for a sensual experience is stored
in a different place than the visual and semantic fragments of that
information)

Or focused Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation. One could "encourage"
the mapping of memories by applying TMS to targeted areas of the brain
while the person is experiencing some video/audio. Such a technique
would be hampered by the impossibility of running TMS simultaneously
with fMRI (AFAIK)

### Identifying Whether Someone Has Had Memories Implanted

The usage of such techniques would be more easily identified if:

#### (1) There is some sole source event to which almost all incepted memories are linked.

#### (2) That event involved possible use of drugs to stifle the creation of some aspects of those memories.[/b]

e.g. propranolol or Zeta Interacting Protein (a la blindspot) might
suppress the neurological accessibility for some memories. But, if the
details of such an experience were, at first, murky at best, then it's
difficult to ascertain whether or not you were truly drugged at that
time. I would certainly hope not. LuLz ... unless you're in the Merry
Pranksters, you can't dose me like that bro.

#### (3) You can assume it is much, much harder to insert *coherent* memories than it is to insert fragments of memories.

i.e. There may be semanitic memory (knowledge of phrases/information)
for which there is no audio/video memory. To correct for this, one
could rely on suggestion and harness the effect of self-creation of
false memories, which is well-exemplified for witnesses to a crime.

#### (4) The absence of "aggregate" memories from before the time the repressed memory was retrieved.

When we access memories, we modify them neurologically. This has been
demonstrated over and over again and recently: 2015! This explains how
witness recall changes details in a person's mind. There is a
neurological basis for this.

So, if 2 years ago, someone retrieves the memory of some high-impact
event 4 years ago that completely changes how they view their lives,
then there may be major dissonance in how they thought about
experiecnes 2-4 years ago (period A) and their memories 0-2 years ago
(period B). Because this person would think of their life in a
completely different manor in period A and those memories weren't
present or accessible, their brain would create a pronouncedly
dissonent set of aggregate memories than the aggregate memories
created during period B, after the recall of repressed memories.

It is that dissonance, specifically, that provokes a schizophrenic
response in patients with severe repressed trauma or memories. After
recalling those memories, their brain needs to disassociate all of the
invalid aggregate memories that they created to explain their
life. because that trauma (abuse, etc) wasn't accessible to their
mind, the person created memories based on the absense of those
memories. After the activation of repressed memories, that means the
person needs to reexamine their life in

#### (5) Logistics & activity of those involved.

If false memories are being used to manipulate someone, then someone
must be involved to invoke those images, phrases, or pieces of
semantic information. Also, creating such a positive or traumatic
experience used as the basis for subsequent memory implantation must
require significant planning at some level. This is really the weakest
link. If this person is manipulated with such techniques, the persons
invoking those probably won't know the significance to the person.
