---
title: "Facets of Greatness"
categories: "blog"
tags: "business psychology philosophy"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
---

[exigently](http://www.thesaurus.com/browse/exigently) - new favorite
word?? ... nah, but close

Talk about people who are still alive
- bill gates
- elon musk
- link to other articles that detail sections of their story
- footnotes

add examples of how to apply these ideas

## Part Two

- Start out by talking a bit about modernization and how special our
  moment in history is.  It's like standing on the shoulders of
  giants and we're ready to launch out into space ... or something..
  - these few generations represent the culmination of human history, at
    least thus far.
  - There's a lot of talk about the Singularity, but I prefer to think
    about it more as Convergence.  We are definitely seeing
    exponential development of technology, but I think we'll
    eventually plateau with something more of a Sigmoid S-curve.
  - Regardless of where you think we're going, with our emminent
    liftoff towards exponential growth, we have to step back and
    examine our trajectory here.
    - It is paramount that we understand where we are going.
  - And we also need to understand how we arrived to where we are.
    How did we get to this momentus position?
    - And really, the answer is that we learned how to measure the
      world around us.
      - We even learned to measure cultural progress.
      - You can see that in the past 600 years, we clearly anticipated
        modernization because of how we prepared for it.  IMO,
        anyways, and I believe you can see some of the underpinnings
        for this stretch back even further. (might want to remove at
        least some of this..  speculative, lacks solid historic
        examples, and maybe not scientific..)
- the sociological implications of technology are more evident every
  day.
  - we need to understand where we are going.  as long as we move
    forward with this in mind, we'll be ok.
    - we need to figure out how to make technology "more human" or we
      risk losing touch with our humanity.
  - if we anticipate how society will change people ...
  - so we need to quantify behavior so we can measure it.  and we can
    anticipate our trajectory.

....

### Quantification

Perhaps one facet is more important than others.  It's hard to say and
while describing each facet, it seems that one is the crux.

they try to systematically and reproducibly measure everything they
can.
- the leaders of enterprise throughout history, but especially in the
  past century,
  - have excelled because they quantified things that others couldn't.
  - google led initial success in search because by developing a means of
    quantifying the websites that people referred to most.
- in other words, where others may have data they collect and things
  they measure,
  - great people will identify what others haven't thought to measure
    - and create methodologies for quantifying what others have
      thought impossible to measure.

### types of measurement



### history of measurement

- time, clocks, etc
  - time is perhaps the most important thing to measure
    - you basically can't organize the behavior of groups of any size,
      especially over long periods of time, if you can't measure time
  - measurement of astrological phenomena led to the development of
    various calendar systems
    - becoming familiar with the recurring nature of annual phenomena
      allowed the ruling class to make better decisions on the
      distribution of resources, the prioritization of work, etc.
    - in addition to being useful for coordinating resources and
      labor, propagating this knowledge through myth so that it was
      common knowledge for the masses was crucial for societal and
      cultural self-preservation
  - eventually we were able to measure the procession of time during
    the day to an unprecedented level of accuracy with the development
    of the water clock and eventually the mechanical clock.
    - before this, it was very difficult to measure much of anything
      with any level of accuracy and especially time.
      - it was very difficult to ensure that weights were actually
        standard between various regions and systems of measurement
        changed often to suit the interests of the ruling class,
        especially in the Dark Ages.
    - this essentially stemied any progress on science for an entire
      millenium
      - maths like calculus weren't necessary because, for the most
        part, without being able to accurately measure time, calculus
        is useless for the most part, in terms of practical
        applications.
      - other maths, like those based on set theory and especially
        statistics have always been incredibly useful. and have likely
        existed in various, nearly unrecognizeable forms throughout
        history, to varying degrees of completeness.
  - prevalence of awareness of time gradually propagated to the masses
    - how restriction of this allowed the ruling class to maintain
      power
  - by the 18th or 19th century, pocketwatches were much more
    prevelant, though still incredibly valuable
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_watches

### Standard Oil

Standard Oil built an empire in the 19th century because they had a
better understanding of their market than their competitors. This is
what allowed them to grow into the dominant position they assumed at
the turn of the 20th century, regardless of how you feel about their
monopolistic tendancies.  That's off topic and I don't want it to
detract from my point: when there was an opportunity for a company
like Standard Oil to be created, they were able to make business
decisions based on the disparity of information and knowledge
available to them and their competitors.


Standard Oil had better information, thus they had better knowledge
and understanding about their market.  How did they acquire that
information?  Through communication and by understanding the data that
was important to collect and the information that was important to
process.  This is mostly opinion, as I don't actually know the
specifics of Standard Oil.  But how would they arrive at such an
understanding of the nature of competition in the late 19th century?
By measuring aspects of the 19th century oil market at that time that
their competitors didn't assess.  If they weren't collecting the right
data, they wouldn't have understood there was an opportunity there.
Or that the conditions of the oil market at that time would inevitably
lead to coalescence.

[examples of unexpected things to measure]
- geographic destribution of their competitors' customers
- market share of their competitors
- oil price trends
- range of viable oil prices for their competitors to offer
- cost of production and transportation for their product vs
  competitors

if you can't measure something, how can you say you know it?
knowledge is power, but if you can't quantify something -- a process,
a quality, etc. -- then how can you reliably reproduce it?  strategy
is useless if you don't know what the pieces are, how the fit together
or whether some piece of your strategy can be reliably executed when
you need it.

also important to quantify statistic variance and risk

...

this is especially important in an information economy.  relevant
information is based on quantifyable data and is processed to produce
knowledge.  if you can't quantify something or if you have collected
the wrong data, this can skew your organizations understanding ....

how can you say you improve year over year, if you don't measure the
right aspects of your business?

how can you say that your product is revolutionary, if you can't
provide numbers that show how revolutionary it is?

lead into communication:
- communication is a great example of something that seems difficult
  to measure

## Networking

- networking as designing/structuring/building/maintaining your social
  network(s)
- your contact list as one of your most valuable assets
  - if you confidence is your most valuable, your contact list might
    be your second most valuable

Returning to the 19th century economy, it amazes me to think back to
previous centuries before the internet and phone systems.  I find
myself pondering what it would be like to remain a step ahead of your
competition at that time.  If you owned a furniture store, you would
spend an exorbitant amount of time checking prices and quality of
products from wholesalers and manufacturers.  You would build a
network of local manufacturers and spend time cultivating those
relationships.

How much of your time would you spend doing that?  How would you stay
ahead of your competitors?  What systems & processes would you enact
to ensure you were capable of collecting the best information on
furniture?  How would you determine what is worth manufacturing
locally and what is more profitable elsewhere?  How would you stay in
contact with previous colleagues?

It seems that before the advent of instantaneous communication that
business -- and especially retail, manufacture and distribution -- was
all in who you knew and how you could leverage your social network in
order to maximize its benefits.  This was a time when doing so would
be costly in terms of time and energy.  Because of the increased
difficulty, the ability to do so would be very profitable.  Thus, in
previous centuries, efficiently receiving information was a critical
factor in determining success for those fortunate enough to own
businesses in that time.

Fortunately, information distribution is no longer constrained by the
limits of space and is beginning to transcend time.  This presents a
different kind of challenge, but it means your social network
connections are almost more valuable.  Who are you tuned in to on
Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.  I've personally noticed a huge
difference in the quality of content between the various networks,
primarily because I'm connected to different sets of people on each.
The most valuable information I receive, concerning business and
technology, comes from Twitter, where I'm connected to many
influential people I don't know.

- there are strategies applicable to each social network,
  - and it really depends on what you're trying to get out of each one
- i find myself wanting better tools, not for producing posts, but for
  consuming them.
  - identifying the right nuggets at the right time is crucial.
- but too much information is distracting.  I could watch coursera
  videos or math lectures all day and never stop.
  - or I could just as easily read articles I find on twitter all day
    and never stop.
  - but I've reached a point where there's so much overlap between the
    knowledge i already have and the information i'm consuming that
    i've become frustrated with media.  it's a challenge to find
    valuable information that expands my knowledge or worldview.
    - too much repeated stuff out there
- managing social media is expensive in terms of time and very
  inefficient, both from the standpoint of consuming it and producing
  it.  i am very close to backing up my contacts and closing out my
  facebook and twitter altogether.

it's becoming more important to prune our social networks and filter
out the info that's just not important.
- briefly describe why, yada, yada

social networks IRL.
- rewrite the summary from part one here
- discuss cultivating your own IRL social network
  - how to approach it methodically

- vetting people's experience level
  - this is important for interviewing as well as networking
  - almost anyone will want to convince you they are better than they
    are at some skill, so you need to be able to quickly test someone
  - there are right and wrong ways to probe someone on experience
    level or skills.  it's kind of like the logic paradox, where if
    you just ask the right question, it doesn't matter if the guy is
    telling the truth or lying.  you'll get the right answer
  - just because someone isn't highly experienced doesn't mean they're
    not a valuable connection.  is this person young and ambitions and
    on their way up?

- these questions and topics to sound someone out will vary, depending
  on the industry, topic, skill, experience level, etc.
  - but, as you get to know more and more people, you'll develop more
    expansive knowledge
  - you can always leverage one of your connections with more
    experience in that field or topic.  you can facilitate a
    connection between these two people and see what that person
    thinks.
    - usually, it's best steer away from introducing these
    people for the obstensible purpose of learning more about
    someone's profiency, at least for the person you're sounding
    out.
    - and it really works best if you can arrange it so that
    neither party knows that's the purpose, but that can reduce the
    effectiveness, if one person doesn't know they're supposed to
    informally vet this person.  you can always hint or make it known
    later on.
    - general rule of thumb, line things up so you can hit 2 birds
      with one stone.  or five birds.  more is better.  and don't make
      it known why you threw the rock.

- the math behind it
  - Efficient b-tree structures & graph reductions
    - finding graph representations to satisfy some functional purpose

- how to design the network you want to create
  - "you are the sum of the 5 people you spend the most time with"
  - the rule of 150 connections

- gamifying networking.
  - important if you realize communication or making connections may
    not be a natural strength
  - by goal-setting, you can collect some basic stats
    - you can set an expectation (i got 10 business cards or met 10
      people)
    - you can gauge your progress over time
    - you can motivate yourself to make more connections while you're
      at an event.  or while your at the event, you can focus more on
      some specific aspect of networking you're trying to improve.
  - you can also set other goals, like practicing an elevator speech.
    - maybe a product pitch or just your personal introduction
  - and you can challenge yourself by competing with other people in
    your sales department
    - a competition to find the most interesting person
    - find a person who owns X car. or has done A,B, and C.

## Communication

Communication is both the receipt and transmission of information.
It's a great example of something that seems difficult to measure and
to quantify.  Unless you're familiar with the math that drives
companies like Google, then communication is going to seem like a
liberal art.  But great people learn how to systemize everything.
It's difficult to truly excel at something without systemizing it.
And they excel at both parsing the nuggets of gold from information
received, as well as crafting their content to convey the intended
message.

Crafting the right message your business, brand or project requires
skill and experience.  It's a tough optimization problem.  The best
take great pains to craft a minimal message.  By minimalizing the
content, the message and its concepts are pure, simple, easily
understood and easily recalled.  You can tell just by looking at
Apple's advertisements, their user manuals, their developer
documentation, their tech support dialogues -- these guys have gone
through great pains to craft their message for simplicity and to
promote their brand's identity.  I can just tell, that Apple as a
company, from the top down, is structured differently, just by
observing the uniform style and goals of nearly 100% of their
communication.

As the internet dominates information distribution and makes it
available to everyone, being privy to information and knowledge is no
longer the difficulty.  It is sifting through the firehose of data.
Now the informational advantage is available to those who can process
the data. Whereas acquiring information used to be the barrier to
overcome that signified opportunity, now it is the capacity for
sifting through the data to find the valuable nuggets.

- paid access to distribute information to people in a targeted manner
  - a.k.a. advertising in general

The prevalence of social media represents ennumerable opportunities to
network with customers, to learn from them, to understand how they
think about your products and to observe the kinds of experiences your
products create.  But social media also presents itself as a huge
vulnerability to business strategy.  If you're not watching your
message, you could be revealing a lot of information abou that
business strategy.  You could be projecting the wrong message and
associations for your brand, confusing your customer's perception of
brand identity or unintentionally diluting your brand's value.
Branding is one of the most crucial aspects to tech products.

Moving back towards the facets of great people, I enjoy watching
interviews of founders or other great leaders today.  I like watching
new and unknown founders who might not have as much experience, but I
like to do so because I see myself in their shoes.  These guys are
green.  They haven't had the PR training.  What mistakes do they make?
What do they consciously and unconsciously focus on presenting to the
audience and why?  What do they think is important about their product
or their message?  How do they react to pressure when they're on
stage?

When watching interviews of people like Steve Jobs or Elon Musk or a
ton of other influential people, it's important to pay attention to
more than just the message they want to convey.  There's a sea of
information you can glean from these videos.  You get to see how they
react with people of various stature, including those who might be
almost unknown.  Even when an audience member asks a dumb question, or
a leading question, you can learn how they respond to different
situations and a little bit about why.

> Ooohhh, yeh, you might want to watch your answer on that one, just
> sidestep and keep moving.

You'll notice that these people are smart and quick, yet usually
passive, when someone does something like asking a leading question.
They usually just don't attach to it, and I'll elaborate on that in a
later section.  Observing how someone responds to problems is vital to
measuring their character.

If you know about the long term goals and mission of this person's
organization, looking at how they posture themselves and their
organization can speak volumes about those goals.  How do they say
they say?  What are their motivations behind the structure of their
message?  How are current events and market conditions affecting their
message today as compared to the past?  What are the obvious points
they could be making, but haven't mentioned and why?  Do how they stay
on message or circle back from a risky area?  Does it seem like the
interviewer or this person veered off track and why?  What was the
outcome of seemingly off the cuff statements and questions?  Good?
Bad?

It's important to note that many, if not most, inferences you make
that aren't grounded in fact might be based in misinterpretation of
words & actions. So properly weighting the inferences you draw is key.

It's crucial and difficult to understand how audience members are
going to perceive your words and actions.  This varies from area to
area.  Politics can be volatile and people will latch onto anything.
Business, not so much, but it can be unpredictable.  But, it's
definitely worth it to have someone else help you construct your
message here and to help you craft together content for a media
appearance.

So I also like to think about the process behind an interview or media
appearance.  How did they identify the questions being asked?  What
was the process to set up the interview?  What's the message they're
obstensibly trying to convey?  Why did they agree to this appearance?
What are both parties getting out of it?

If they have someone managing PR, how did they work to posture content
for the organization and/or it's projects for this interview?  What
would motivate them to do so?  How long ago does it seem like they
structured their content and message?  Have current events affected
their PR posturing in the week(s) leading up to the interview?  For
politicians running for election, did some article or video clip set
the tone?  How was their PR and team involved in responding to this?
Are they responding to the elephant in the room?  Is that typically
how they handle situations like that and why?

But, again and perhaps most important, when they veered off track, why
did that happen?  This might be where you pick up the most information
that wasn't intentionally conveyed.

While it's critical to convey a simple message, for many
organizations, this can render elements of your business strategy more
predictable than you'd like.  In contrast, your organization needs to
keep people guessing.  The idea here is at least two-fold.  First,
people are excited with new information and this keeps your fans and
customers focused on you.  And secondly, extraneous information makes
it much harder for a competitor to completely discern elements of your
strategy.  So, if you only stick to what seems relevant, then it
becomes easier for your opponents to predict your intentions,
strategy, opportunities and other facets of your organization's
behavior.

These tactics contrast with the goal of keeping communications simple
and minimal. At best, these tactics allow your organization to remain
agile and retain surprise.  Yet, the wrong idea could backfire, if not
properly assessed or executed.  Using tactics to avoid predictability
requires that you have an intimate understanding of how your message
is perceived by various categories of customers and how it could be
perceived.

- "concept cars" and other things that will never ever happen

## Signaling

Communication is signaling and vice versa, but signaling is more
indirect.  To me, signaling encompasses incidental communication of
your organizations intentions through purchasing agreements, real
estate purchases, intellectual property registration and startup
acquisitions.  It never ceases to amaze me the lengths that companies
will go through to cover their tracks, sometimes.  Then there are
other instances where a major company is obviously signaling towards a
major investment of their resources and I wonder why they wanted to
make that knowledge public. I wish I could be a part of those
discussions because I'm sure they have good reasons.

The best example of signaling I can think of is the great lengths that
the US and UK undertook to surprise Germany with the invasion location
for DDay.  There were two major possibilities for DDay invasion.  The
UK conspired to have a cadaver available before the invasion and send
it floating to shore at the alternate location.  This was a day or so
before the invasion in Normandy.  This signaled to Hitler that Germany
should concentrate its forces in preparation of invasion there and
ordered much of their land forces away from Normandy.  If it weren't
for this tactical use of signaling, the UK and US would have suffered
massively larger losses in DDay.  The story is even more fascinating
when you hear all the details.  Definitely worth it.

This story underscores the importance of understanding how your
actions affect the behavior of others.  Any great strategy must take
signaling into account.  Quite often, taking signaling into account
sometimes significantly obfuscates an otherwise simple strategy.  If
you're trying to throw off your opponent in chess, this could result
in a several move delay before you position the piece you actually
wanted.  In order for it to be useful, you need to understand how your
opponent plays the game, whether they understand a particular strategy
and how they might react to such a strategy.

In business, purchasing a company or real estate could signal your
intentions to your competitors.  Furthermore, prices of stocks and
commodities can signal the reactions of entities in a particular
industry.  If you know that industry and you understand the decision
making process for the players in that game, you can understand how
actions which weren't initiated by one of those players could indicate
changes in their behavior.

As for founders and great leaders, they seem to prefer to not signal
at all -- which would be boring in my opinion.  For founders of
companies, it's smart to generally turn down the volume on your
emotional reactions.  For people in other industries, the opposite
could be true -- 24/7 poker face is a bad thing.  For many people,
it's just personality.

In general, I've noticed that founders and other greats tend to dull
their emotional response during long form interviews.  They don't want
to signal anything at all.  This could be because of the risk of
sending the wrong message.  Confusion can be more difficult to quell
than it is useful, especially if you want to convey a uniform message.
For some roles and industries, it seems more important to remain
reserved, though not withdrawn. Higher volume emotional responses
could detract from the important pieces of your message, if it's an
intellectual one. Some people will latch onto anything you give them
that they can contort to attack you.  Sometimes it's better not to
give anyone anything at all.

If you're someone who has a considerable amount of influence, you
really have to watch your words and actions because you can create
more of an effect than you expect.  This is especially true if other
people want to use your words and actions for their own purposes or
without your knowledge.

![picasso's manus]

Founders need to prevent people from resolving and deducing more
information based on their reactions, especially if they're involved
in a competitive space.  Additionally, when a founder has established
business partnerships, unintentionally signalling the wrong thing can
adversely affect your partners. Someone could prompt you with a
seemingly harmless question and a founder needs to know how to
respond, while taking into account their own interests and the
interests of their partners.  They need to take these factors into
account a priori and know what questions could be asked.  Situations
like this, even when someone didn't intend harm with their reaction
could cause significant problems for other people or partners.

Keeping business partnerships in mind when talking about signaling
from a organizational perspective is more complicated.  Agreements
with business partners may require that you coordinate signalling in a
market -- though the text of such an agreement wouldn't call it that.
This could be unethical, depending on how it's used and how you
coordinate.

Businesses may pursue strategies employed *solely* to see how a
competitor reacts to better understand how signaling affects their
competitor's behavior.  From this, they can make inferences about
their competitor's strategy.  While I specifically mentioned *solely*,
this isn't true -- no strategy is employed for a single explicit
purpose in business.

Great people with no small plans have a clear distinction b/w what
info can be shared and what should remain private. The understand what
inferences can be made with each new piece of info.  This is
incredibly important because any great project requires great plans.
Everyone, or almost everyone, would love to build something great.  So
have you to conceal your intentions, your strategies and your
motivations.  Because, at best, someone else will end up building what
you had planned.  Or a competitor will sidestep and adapt to your
strategy, rendering it useless.  Or just a massive waste of time.

This is why signaling is so important.  The kind of people who end up
being truly great understand signaling.  The understand how to read
the actions of others and what message to send.  They know what
questions to ask and what not to ask and the implications of making
particular statements.  They understand motivations behind their own
actions and their colleagues actions.

They also understand how important it is to acquire information, even
though directly asking the question would signal elements of their own
strategy to their opponents.  So they know how to work through other
people to acquire information, so that competitors aren't tipped off
by the desire to obtain particular information.  That is, they
understand how to destructure and restructure the acquisition of
knowledge to satisfy appearances and other rules of the game.  They
also know how to destructure and restructure the steps of someone's
plan of action or business strategy, as well as their own.  Or of
someone's actions within their own organization.

They also understand that this kind of destructuring and restructuring
is very expensive, in terms of time and energy, but that it is
invaluable to security and risk mitigation.  They understand this and
are capable of acquiring the resources required to be capable of this
kind of orchestration.

## Knowledge

These people value knowledge and systematize it's acquisition.
They're intimately aware of what they don't know.  They understand how
to apply knowledge for gain.  They have the wisdom to deftly perform
when they don't have the knowledge.

They construct strategies based on what they learn.  Then they
enumerate the factors and dependencies of the factors in that
strategy.  They understand that in some industries or trades, there
are factors that are critical and there are factors that seem
critical, but fall away over time.

Most people believe that particular indicators and statistics drive
markets, prices, etc.  Usually the commonly understood model of
something is mostly true, but it's a facade that hides the deeper,
more complex machinery that truly drives the secret motion of things.
The commonly understood factors that drive business or drive human
behavior are too easy.  There isn't much value to be derived if
modeling a business on an oversimplistic model -- if everyone
understands it, where's the opportunity?  If that's all you had to
know to win, then everyone would do it -- whatever it is: business,
music, sales, acting, etc.

The commonly understood factors are just the basics and math is often
the key to modeling systems faster and more accurately.  Usually the
common model is based on a limited set of math.  It's accuracy and
predictions are limited because of this.  Finding true success means
that you have to understand everything at a much deeper level.  Once
you have this deeper understanding, then you can exploit that
knowledge differential towards your success.

This knowledge differential is the difference between your deeper
understanding of a subject against that of the commonly understood
model for your subject of interest.  But you need to be intimately
familiar with each model!  This is so you can understand the
opportunities created by the differences in your model vs. the common
model. And more important, you need to know what leads someone to
believe the common model accurately models a system and why.  You need
to know how people perceive errors in their model of a system and why.
Often this deeper understanding of a trade, a skill or a industry
comes from experience.  Thousands of hours on a subject.

Furthermore there are accurate models of subjects that just aren't
commonly understood yet.  So here, your more complete understanding
gives you an advantage.  You can profit from the disparity in
knowledge here -- but don't be evil, lol!  All joking aside, evil
behavior here includes misleading other people and network marketing
schemes.  Pure evil, unless your cousin pushes CrackStar or something.

But you have to know that, usually, competitive advantage in this case
doesn't last forever, if you depend on some better understanding of
how a market, product or industry works.  If other people manage to
find a better solution to the problem your system solves or if they
find a better model to the system themselves, then your opportunity
begins to fade.  So, unless you have IP that protects you, your
advantage here might only last until a more accurate model of that
system becomes the commonly accepted one.  Social media and SEO are
good examples here.  Some techniques work until they are commonly
known.  And in these cases, you need to posture yourself and your
organization for a healthy transition.  It's your responsibility to
your employees and your organization.

Also, there are factors which are perceived as being driving forces
and strong indicators which aren't really that useful. If you know how
people determine what is important in a marketplace, then you can
profit from the disparity between how they think it works and how you
know it works.  That is, again, you profit from the knowledge
disparity there -- but what is crucial is knowing when certain factors
in a model are going to be proper indications.  If you have experience
in knowing when a factor will determine a system's behavior and you
understand how this affects people's actions, then you can profit.

> A general example: Factor A is usually a good indicator of demand
> for Product X from Industry Y.  It's commonly accepted knowledge for
> stock brokers.  Maybe it's a dip in price for a particular
> commodity.  But your model says: this is true, except when Factor B
> and C supercede A.  In which case, it's actually an indication of
> lower demand for Product X. Then, you know the price is going to
> rise from people's expectations and their misguided purchase of
> stock from Industry Y.  So you know to sell your stock when the
> price rises from the aggregate effect of purchases.  Then, you wait
> for the inevitable drop in price that your model predicts.  Boom.
> Purchase more shares.  Make more money.  Simple as that (not really)

All of this "factor" and "model" bs is very generic, i know.  But it's
very usefull in more than just the stock market.  Everyone wants to
participate in Activity X or Trade Y wants to build a mental model of
how it works, especially if they want to participate competitively.
Some of these models are good and some are bad.  And some people just
exhibit irratic behavior.  But:

- Understanding what people believe
- Inferring their belief structure
- Comparing it to others
- Generalizing belief structures
- Comparing and contrasting them
- And understanding how that affects actions and results

These are crucial to identifying opportunity and mitigating risk in
nearly any market, any subject, any skill, any activity.

Furthermore, the effect these factors and models have grows and wanes.
People who are successful understand why Factor A seems dominant now,
but that it is Factor B which will be dominant in a decade.  So now is
a good time to prepare a venture that expects to profit from Factor B.
While everyone else is expecting Factor A to determine the market for
decades, this signals an opportunity to prepare for profiting from the
disparity in market forces there.

Yet, the only way you can capitalize here is by having the resources
to invest.  If you don't have resources to invest while the
opportunity is open, you can't exactly reap the rewards, nor can you
insulate yourself from a changing market.  In other words, you are
like a leaf in the wind, subject to forces beyond your control.

This is also why I'm so frustrated with being ignored when I had so
many startup ideas over the years.  It's only really an opportunity
until someone dominates the market.  I believe while there is a
plethora of opportunities now, the barrier to entry for technical
startups is going to rise slowly over the next decade.

> Baller Blockin' ... They straight up baller blockin'

And it's crucial to diversify your portfolio when market conditions
seem likely to change.  There's an important conflict of interest here
that many larger entities have: usually they don't want to compete
with themselves.  Why would they develop Product B which would return
20% the profits now when they could just shove their heads in the
sand.  Many businesses at this point pursue other strategies to
mitigate a new technology or product because they are not incentivized
to develop it.  In fact, it's quantifiably more profitable -- knowing
this technology is inevitable -- to stave it off as long as possible
than it would be to develop it themselves.  That is, if the profit
rate for Product A is really that much higher than Product B.  This is
a complicated scenario with several other courses of action, including
purchasing the competitor's IP and snuffing that baby in the cradle.

But, my point is -- heads. in. sand.  In this case, it's a hard sell
to a board of directors to invest in this risky new technology that
might slash through profit margins in 5 years or so.  Why would they
do that when they got a good thing goin on?  And convincing a public
company to do this, when the public shareholders have considerable
influence over the direction of a company?

> "You're going to do what to my dividends?"

Truthfully, the situation described above, where a company stagnates on
innovation because of conflict of interest probably doesn't play out
that way.  But often it can.  Yet, this signals more opportunity.  If
you know that a new technology is going to revolutionize an industry
and that the juggernauts of that industry can't shift gears fast
enough to capitalize on it, that's an opportunity.

Basically, to sum it up: you gotta know which way the wind blows to
understand how things are going to play out.  Knowledge is key to
constructing an accurate vision of how the world will change.
Instagram was an opportunity partially created because Apple updated
iOS to include the ability to apply filters to photos using OpenGL,
AFAIK.  Basically, if you know what new technologies are coming down
the pipeline, you can prepare to take advantage of them later.  So if
you know that adding OpenGL to iOS will enable features like instant
photo filters, you can prepare to code that shit as fast as you can
out of the gate.  But the key here is to stay in tune with upcoming
tech and understand how it will affect people's use of technology.

And knowing which way the wind blows means knowing which market forces
are going to be dominant and which are going to fall away.  It's
similar to complexity theory (aka Big-O Notation) for algorithms.
Some aspects of an algorithm might seem important and expensive at
first glance.  But in the end, when you apply that algorithm at scale,
those aspects just don't matter.  And this is one lesson to be learned
by employing economies of scale: some factors, like cost of
distribution or whatever, just fall away when your enterprise is
structure to employ economies of scale.

And understanding what market forces are dominant means sorting
through the sea of data and sorting through the noise.  People have
vested interest in getting you to believe something is true.  You have
to sort through all that and understand their incentives, behavior,
beliefs and signaling to find the truth.

- how to acquire knowledge quickly
  - intelligence as the set of knowledge to enable you to acquire,
    process, prioritize and analyze the important information.
    - notes from my youtube video


## Vision

apple 1984 commercial
- see summary on vision
- it posed apple's product as being somehow fundamentally different
  - and conveyed the rebellious spirit that apple wanted to market
- for many people it was the first major impression of apple that they
  had.  and AFAIK (fact-check) the ad didn't even feature the product
  - and it left many people scratching their heads
  - but for many of those people who resonated emotionally with the
    message, they felt compelled to learn more about apple's upcoming
    products.
  - the effort they spent doing meant that their emotional connection
    to apple's product and their image of apple's newly established
    brand would be reinforced.
- apple was trying to reach people who went against the grain because
  it wanted to reach artists and writers and other creatives
  - again ... fact check
  - but the point is, they were trying to create an ad that would
    resonate with customers who had specific qualities
  - because they weren't just trying to market to everyone and build
    the biggest market they could
  - no, they wanted their market share to be driven by acquiring a
    particular kind of customer. they wanted to capture that person's
    imagination and they wanted to make them passionate about apple's
    products by leading them to share Apple and Steve Job's vision of
    personal computing.

And this brings us to vision.  Your expert level understanding of your
market, your skill, or whatever it is drives the development of your
vision.  Great people always have a vision, which is driven by how
they believe things are, where they are currently going and is
encompassed by where they believe theings are truly going.  Or the
direction things should truly go, if their vision helps save us from
some poignant fate.

Usually a vision isn't so important when it falls in line with the
commonly accepted paradigm.  How are you going to sell someone on
common sense?  If someone is going to be passionate about it, needs to
be different.  It should have a need to be marketed and pitched
because if it truly diverges from the commonly accepted paradigm, it's
going to be a tough sell.  This doesn't mean every great person's
vision needs to be quasi-religious in nature, but the kool-aid needs
to taste different than what everyone else is serving.

In this sense, your vision needs to instill a sense of importance.
Someone helping you work towards your vision should feel like they are
a part of something, that they have expended lots of effort helping
you build it, that it is important and that there's a higher purpose
towards it, which can be harder to see for other people.  If you are
pulling people in by selling them on a grandiose vision, you really
need to assess it's true value to them.

Your vision will motivate your teams to build the best products out
there.  It should inspire them to create and develop not only your
products, but themselves as well.  Your vision will inspire you to
conceive and reinforce your strategy, in spite of whatever obstacles
appear to be in your way.  It should be fueled by passion and you
should feel compelled to persevere, in spite of setbacks.  It should
also be easily communicated, so that others can understand the values
and beliefs embodied within it.

Your vision, if it is built the right set of knowledge, should
accurately illuminate a path forward for your organization. This
vision should be built on your understanding of your market, your
technologies, and knowledge of your consumer's beliefs.

But .. you know, be realistic.

- Apple Newton
  - publicly was a huge failure but allowed apple to collect a
    ton of data on mobile applications, usage and consumer
    behavior.  positioned apple to conduct mobile research
  - this data & experience was likely critical for determining
    the required processing power, battery life, networking
    capabilities for a successful mobile computing product
    (i.e. the iPhone)
  - so then they would know that when these product specs cross
    over some critical specs, that would be the ideal time to
    release a product *like* the Newton, so that it wouldn't be
    a complete consumer flop
  - and they would have a leg up on the competition and be
    able to take advantage of the hype to ensure that apple's
    mobile product would take off.

## Story

- people love a good story
  - there's always something to be learned
  - you can make your brand, your identity more relatable
  - your story sometimes drives your vision
    - and helps other people understand the 'why' behind your vision

- Southwest Airlines and a cocktail napkin
- Steve Jobs story

- a story about how you met your cofounders or what spurred you to
  create your product are invaluable
  - these are things that cannot be replicated by your competition
  - these are things that cannot be changed
  - and they help cultivate a unique connection between you and your most loyal customres
    - or your potential customers in your market
    - or between you and a new friend

- so if you live life knowing that when you meet a new person, like any new person,
  - you want to notate your first experience(s) with them and always remember them
    - you now have something between the two of you that no one else does
  - but you need to have a vivid awareness of the present moment
    - as well as the desire to remember the small things when they happen
    - in order to really cultivate a new connection in this way
  - otherwise, if you don't keep this in mind
    - (and it takes much intent to acutely focus on the present moment)
    - it's too easy to get distracted by life and all the usual things
      and all your usual patterns and behaviors
      - many opportunities will pass you by and you'll never even know
      - these things won't seem like opportunities at all if you even notice them anyways
  - and to develop this sense of discerning true novelty and unknown
    opportunity in your mind
    - you must be acutely aware of present phenomena and the inner
      workings of your own mind
      - you have to understand how your own mind functions in an accurate and honest way
        - if you ever hope to change it in any meaningful way
    - and it's counterintuitive to think that, in order to change how
      you look for novelty in everyday things,
      - which requires discovering something new, one needs to become
        familiar with their own cognitive workings,
      - which is what occludes this stuff in the first place

> "to cultivate a sense of discerning true novelty & unknown
> opportunity, become acutely aware of the present & your cognitive
> patterns"

- but this skill of looking for the commonly overlooked is a great
  contributing attribute in
  - building a new product or creating a great story to tell or really
    making the most of your life

- How focusing on you want to tell the story of your life 2-5 years from now
  - helps you focus harder on making the moment at hand more special
  - what did i do that pushed me forward?
  - how did i assess my situation in life to make sure that i got the most out of it
  - when there were setbacks, what did i do to
  - what makes my story different?
  - and why did i do the things i did?
    - is the 'why' something i can tell other people?
      - if not, this *can* indicate negative behavior
      - there's plenty of times when you can't explain why
      - but usually, if you can explain the reasoning behind your
        behavior and do so honestly ..
  - so if you face some hardships in your life
    - think about how you would overcome them, if you were the hero of your story
- also, this idea that we're all telling our own story can have some downsides
  - like yeh, it can definitely motivate us to turn hardship into a reason to excel
    - but you don't want to just create contrived circumstances.
    - and you don't want to be the villian either, so i don't want
      this to be taken the wrong way

- but also -- living your life and just appreciating that later on,
  you'll be able to tell your story
  - and knowing that it will be a better story because you focused on
    getting the most out of life while you could,
  - -- that, in itself will help drive more positive behavior, i think.
    - you'll create more memorable experiences
    - you'll craft your own story and be able to relate your
      experiences to others in a more meaningful way

- but my point is that great people seem to excel at this skill too
  - at relating what pushed them harder and why their vision matters
    so much to them.

- how my story kinda sucks
  - because i've faced a lot of problems which weren't even that big of a deal
    - but still fumbled, so these parts kinda suck to tell as a story
  - but i've never given up

## Identity

- kernel (linux reference)

- your vision becomes part of your identity (segue)
  - your vision becomes part of your image
  - explain why identity/image is so important
  - i've noticed that some of the most brilliant people
    tend to almost become their philosophy.
- your organization must embody or complement your image
  - branding is everything: for people and for startups
    - yet as a person, IMO, don't become so image-obsessed that building it
      & protecting become everything you do.
      - maintaining a perfect image is often difficult.  and boring.
      - if you're constantly guarding yourself against situations that
        risk a negative outcome, then you miss out on a lot of the
        basic random life situations where you learn to react, adapt &
        grow
    - a lot of the advice i would offer to someone else with regard to
      image cuts against the beliefs and behavior I exhibit myself.
      - in business, it's good to have a clean cut image and style.
        in entertainment, it helps, but another style of image might
        fit better. but you must remain consistent and in tune with
        what makes you resonate.
      - in the past decade, i've tended to go against that.  I didn't
        want the meticulous clean-cut look.  I didn't like wearing
        suits and dress clothes to work because it meant having two
        sets of clothes, which was weird.
      - and plus, the pleated khaki and button down look tended to
        pull me away from a lot of people, who were often a lot more
        interesting. i felt that if i completely ascribed to that
        look, i'd miss out on learning a lot about people in general.
    - usually, when you have a brand and image to maintain, it becomes
      risky to interact with just anyone, especially when everyone
      knows you.
      - I'm not famous or anything, but I have experienced what it
        feels like when you never ever have the chance to make a brand
        new first impression.  it sucks ... well i guess it depends on
        your image, lol.  But, everyone already has this idea of who
        you are because they've heard things about you.
        - So if you have friends in high places and people have a good
          impression of you, that's great.
        - If you have enemies or frenemies in high places (and maybe
          made a lot of bad moves in your late teens) then you can
          accrue a lot of baggage with your image.
        - Worse still, i pretty much decided to make myself a target
          by supporting marijuana legalization. I realized that one of
          the reasons it was perpetuated was because of how the drug
          war silenced dissent.  I probably should have just attended
          college in california or something.  I severely
          underestimated the personal cost to my reputation.
        - ... should i end this here?
        - However, instead of defeating me, some of these early black
          marks to my image instead provided challenges that I had to
          strategize to work around.  I had to learn to tuck and weave
          within the socially conservative region of southwest
          virginia
    - A great way to strengthen connections with others and to build
      your image is to give back.  It's hard to do this in southwest
      virginia when you can't drive.  You're never the person that
      your friends will think of when they need help with something.
    - I spent nearly 8 years between the ages of 20 and 30 either
      unable to drive or without a car.  Sometimes, I didn't really
      need to, but it was almost always a huge setback.  In early
      2011, after finally getting my license when my license was
      suspended.

- self-awareness is a valuable trait with regard to identity and image
  - it's essential to all the other facets, especially: networking,
    communication, signaling and

- developing an understanding of how your organization is perceived
  - as well as the groups and units within it
  - also, to dig for the meta, this means you need to develop tactics
    and behavior of identifying how to quickly construct accurate
    self-image at various levels.
    - always in flux: from time to time, from person to person, from
      group to group.

- some of us seek to hide our identity
  - detecting when this is occuring in others.
    - and why it's important to know why someone would hide something.


- interesting how the future affects the present
  - similar to how your story connects you to your identity,
    - you should be able to connect a path from your identity to your vision

- as much as i hate it, appearances are everything

## The System

explain that i mean they innately understand the rules of the system
they create within
- with regard to structuring/creating/operating a legal entity
  - understanding how to get the system to work for you
    - without abusing it
- especially as this pertains to intellectual property

- patents/trademarks/copyrights

Regardless, following
the patent process through to the end requires

- LLC/C-Corp/S-Corp

- how stocks work for startups and early stage businesses
  - preferential stock

## Strategy

strategy as the composition of tactics and paths to long term goals
- tactics tend to be generalizable and applicable to multiple
  situations

- in terms of game-theory, business is a mix of turn-based and
  real-time strategy

- backward induction
  - identifying midgame and endgame positions or goals to achieve
    - walking back through a sequence of moves or objectives to get
      there
    - then obfuscating or permuting your moves to avoid detection

- hp's machine and how things look different from the top than they do
  from the bottom up
  - 9:06 (whatever i recorded at about 9:06pm)
  - so the exec's need to be able to estimate assets, liabilities, &
    expected revenues, along with risk.
  - they also need to be able to evaluate the effect of hypothetical
    situations without worrying people within their organization will
    believe those situations to be probable or possible
    - espeically when those hypothetical strategies require
      complicated/expensive/controversial action
    - i.e. they might want to examine the effects of laying off large
      amounts of people, without having people in their organization
      worry about the how it will play out or whether it's
      possible/likely at all
    - another good example are wargames
      - run throughs of hypothetical situations

## Orchestration

resummerize as orchestration & describe the differences between that
and strategy.

- so they understand all these things
  - and they see where they want to go
  - they have the passion and energy to push to get it

- but, when confronted with obstacles, they identify an alternate path
  - lack resources for orchestration? they figure out a way to get them
  - lack skills?  they work hard to acquire them
  - terrible reputation/image?  they come up with a strategy for changing it
- they understand the goal and that no one's going to do the work for them
  - they aren't afraid of massive challenge.
  - where they see risk, they see opportunity
  - where they see challenge, they see (opportunity for personal growth)

- know what they want and don't waste their energy chasing things they don't
  - they keep their eye on the ball (very important)
  	- if your energy/time is diverted to other things, you're not
        going to get much done

  - important for angel investors  (cut?)
    - if you want to perform as an angel investor,
      - you need strong communication with the companies you fund
        - or at least, you need to have some kind of apparatus in
          place that provides you with the information you need
          - [reword?]
      - if you aren't capable of getting the straightforward
        information you need about your investments

calculating risk

appearances vs. reality
- how a strategy is perceived
- shielding your tactics from detection
  - poker analogy: if your tell is spotted, how do you use it again?
    - if you call a bluff or win too many times on one basis...
    - the way to reuse them is to randomly swap out your tactics
      - and allow the opponent to "win" just enough to think that the
        next hand is a good bet
    - in other words you have to detect when you have been detected

knowledge of legal options for your business
- strategically structuring your patents and other IP registration

- registering copyrights for materials you produce
  - registering contracts to transfer.

In poker (for which I am no expert!) if your tell is spotted, how do
you use it again?  If you call a bluff or win too many times on just
one basis, then your opponents will pick up on the specific info
you're using to win.  The way to reuse your info channels (tells) or
tactics, is to randomly cycle them in and out.  If you rely on tells
too many times in a row, then even if the opponent can't determine how
you're picking up the info, they'll know.  Or they'll suspect.
Regardless, they'll change their behavior and what you've learned will
just become more info to manage.  So you have to cycle them out, which
usually means allowing the opponent to "win" just enough to think the
next hand is a good bet.

Beware making your goals known.  You have to know the right time to
make your objects known and to whom you will disclose them.  There are
people who will stop at nothing to be little haters that seek to trip
you up whenever they can.  It's happened to me sooo many times.  It's
incredibly frustrating to be excited about some new app idea, just to
have someone intentionally trip you up by distracting you or
misdirecting your energy or whatever.  You'd be surprised at what
people are eager to do, even though they won't ever accomplish much
themselves.  And yet, the last thing they'll do is partner up with you
on a project or offer to help, directly.  Sounds paranoid and I think
it's fueled by confirmation bias, but I've experienced it several
times.

> "Rule #1 in life: Don't ever, ever let David Conner win.  Fuck that
> guy."

The cynicism is killing me on the inside, like a cancer.  Regardless,
this kind of shit that I've been shoveling all my life has only served
to make me stronger, year after year, as long as I can stave off the
negativity. My life is like one of those logic paradoxes.


of course the other side is detecting and analyzing strategy
- the perfect strategy is nothing if it doesn't take into account the
  behavior of other players (and non-players)
- starcraft 'probe' tactics
  - you need to be aware of what your opponent is planning
    - while preventing them from becoming aware that you know
- why it's useless to be a psychic?
  - because the second someone knows that you know, they'll change
    their mind and claim you're crazy.

- measuring your opponents intent by gauging the level of energy
  invested


### Already tried turning it off and on again?

#### Tried pushing all the buttons? Because that usually works well!!

![Pushing all the buttons](/img/posts/2016-05-03-facets-of-greatness-part-1-intro/push-all-the-buttons.gif)

### ... NOT!

404 => Buttons Denied! Sometimes it's better not to push those buttons
if you don't know what you're doing. Pushing all of them is bad. DO
NOT DO IT. CLEAR?

### Save for an intro

- no one does anything truly great by accident (well, almost no one)
  - but there are some people,
    - whereby some accident of fate or life circumstance
    - who life equips with not only the insight required to understand
      the importance of these [attributes]
    - but also the mind/behaviors to create a path and the spirit to
      conquer these challenges [any obstacles].
  - this is why you must guard your will to fight
    - your [most dangerous] enemies will go for that first
    - the kinds of people you need to look out for won't directly attack you
      - people like that are easy to deal with.  practically take care of themselves.
    - but they'll drain your spirit, redirect your energy and leave you exhausted.

### ???

the unknown facet (rewrite summary!)
- describe it as the things we don't know or can't know
  - we should become comfortable with what we can't do yet or with
    what we haven't learned
  - by challenging ourselves to experience what is uncomfortable(?) or
    difficult, we expand our ability to deal with those situations the
    next time
    - because our mind is the product of ideas and processes that it
      can combinate, then by developing skills which are challenging
      and difficult for most, our mind will become more capable than
      others.
    - some of us have unique challenges that prevent us from
      experiencing some things and this means that there are some
      ideas or extensions of those ideas which aren't available to
      everyone.  or rather, those ideas are only available
      vicariously.
      - but we should embrace those people who can expand our minds by
        sharing experiences that we can't have or truly can't know

far too many people associate being different with weakness
- they seek to identify what makes others different and they point it
  out.  they question it.  they criticize it.  sometimes they accept
  it, but usually people will try to use it in some way.  (examples?)

and, with respect to themselves ... instead of embracing their
uniqueness, they lie to themselves by distorting their true self to
seek conformity.
- they assume that whatever it is that makes them different makes them
  weak and so they seek
  - they see whatever part of them that doesn't conform as being an
    unnecessary appendage that should be amputated and cauterized
    before it threatens their conformity.
  - and by accepting this, they delude themselves into destroying
    their strengths.
  - example: blind & deaf people have minds that are fundamentally
    different than those of "normal people".  What is usually
    considered a weakness can actually be a strength, though dealing
    with something like blindness presents many challenges.
    - however, if we consider humanity to be the product of all the
      ideas available to our collective minds, shouldn't we embrace
      diversity of thought as a strength? these people who have
      endured challenge after challenge in their lives and whose minds
      will no doubt contain a wholly different range of memories and
      ideas, we should see them as luminaries who can see things we
      could never imagine.
  - example: for america, it's actually our diversity that is our
    greatest strength. we are a patchwork of various cultures, all
    assimilated to some varying degree.  by assuming that we should
    all melt into a single culture, we will actually lose our greatest
    strength.  our cultural diversity is one thing that america has
    that no other culture on earth can match.
    - cultural homogeny means that one group of people can more simply
      and more easily motivate others towards action.  however, at the
      same time, homogeny leads to weakness.
    - homogeny reduces our ability to provide robust cultural
      defenses.
    - it limits the scope of ideas that we can combinate in order to
      discover new ones.
    - it makes us more vulnerable since we are restricted to that set
      of ideas.
    - [include section from my draft on fighting kony]
  - it's actually been shown that cultural dissonance drives
    intelligence because the struggle to understand and interoperate
    with a foreign culture eventually empowers the mind (recent
    studies on this)
- at the same time, diversity presents challenges. multiculturalism
  isn't easy and all too often the interests of one culture dominate
  that of others.
  - it can be more difficult to unify people to fight or the convey
    the urgency of uniting towards a higher purpose.
    - it's incredibly important for our world to retain this ability
      to protect ourselves from the chaos resulting from strained
      relationships or turbulent economics or some catastrophe.

wisdom as knowing what to do when you do not know (rewrite)
- having the patience and intuition for times when it seems that you
  have a set course of action or viable options

knowing when to make a stand and when to hold your cards (partial rewrite)
- knowing how to recognize a situation where doing nothing is the only
  wrong thing to do
  - while respecting the beauty of things as inherantly perfect as
    they are, where any form of intervention would only destroy that
    thing or mar it's beauty.

- knowing how important diversity is to personal growth, it's also
  important to recognize that a wide range of experiences and a
  self-directed life is crucial for ourselves and our children.
  people need to be able to think for themselves and make their own
  mistakes ... most of the time.
  - sometimes it's crucial to intervene, but too often, and you'll
    stagnate or interfere with or completely redirect that person's
    development. maybe that's for the best, but who can be the judge?
  - analogy to bonsai trees: environment, nutrition, trimming, etc.
    - interference results in redirection of the tree's energy
    - but you can never actually control how the tree uses it's life
      force.
    - and many such interventions end up reducing that tree's ability
      to grow.
  - analogy to a ship in a bottle?
  - the importance of someone's idea of independence to their
    development.  by intervening in a very opaque way that is obvious
    to that person, you have now altered their course.
    - it can be very difficult to intervene in such a way that is
      transparent and effective (again, who should be the judge of
      what is effective for someone's life and goals?)
    - but is worth the effort, for that person can retain their sense
      of independence.  just as their successes will belong to them,
      so will their setbacks and struggles.
    - this is why, even though it'd be great to receive credit for
      various things, it's impossible to prove who set what in motion.
      - honestly, in my case, there are so many other people who are
        more capable of taking on some lofty pipe dream.  who knows
        whether it would work out.
      - a corollary of this is that if you are hard at work on some
        project, you also need to be aware of how your efforts are
        perceived, if you care about getting credit or being
        recognized.
