---
title: "Fallout Zero: A Little Psychological Torture Never Left A Mark"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
tags: "communism politics economics"
categories: blog
headline: ""
excerpt: "

"
---


# part two

# Zero Deterrence Programs

### Three Major Goals to Our Psychological Torture Programs

### But Technically, Pschological Torture Is A Warcrime.

# Exhibit Z: My Brain

### A Living Will And Testament For Justice

### I Never Signed That

# Somebody Call The SPCA!

### Hey, At Least It's Not A Gulag

# Guilty Upon Examination of Public Federal Documentation

### Duplicity in the JSFC War College Process Documentation

# Who Are We At War With, Anyways?

### Catch-22's and Posse Comitatus

### Julius Caeser and Silly Roman Superstitions

### Where's the War on Terror Being Fought?

### Domestic Psychological & Informational Is Cowardly

# WHY R U SO MAD DOOD?!

### Dante's Inferno and Fates Worse Than Death

### Waterboarding, on Supersoakers

### Oh It's Research?! Then Publish Your Data!

### Now I'm Even More Afraid to Seek Psychological Help

### If You've Made It Close To Where I Am, You Have NOTHING

### Wait, Wait, Wait ... YOU DID WHAT TO MY FAMILY?!


# That's Detention for you Mr. Nelson!

### How Do They Control You In Detention?

# Oh That's No Tennis Racket. That's Corruption and Extortion.






# How Could This Happen Here?

Every day I think I've solved the puzzle to the American media circus,
I find out there's more. I'm starting to feel tired and I don't really
know why. I've felt like I've been surreptitiously medicated off and
on for a long time, but I don't think that's it now. I really don't
know what's wrong, but every day I discover something new, but
terrible.

The first twenty years of my life, I was intentionally sheltered, so
that I wouldn't know what to want in life and I didn't develop. The
next ten years was rough. I was passionate about my rights and other
issues, so I wanted to stand up for them, but no one really clued me
in. So the isolation from license suspensions gave way to outright
psychological torture with a budget. Now I'm worried that something's
really wrong with my health, but no one cares. Every encounter I have
with the people closest to me always tends towards negative and I am
never permitted to have the experiences I need to develop, as someone
with Aspergers who missed out for the first two decades. Then, I'm
made to feel like it's my fault and it's really not. And they
deconstructed my psychology, to use it against me.

*What Hippocratic Oath?!*

### No One Ever Listened To Me

For so long, no one would listen to me. I only pieced it together when
I realized how many psychological and sociological variables needed to
be tightly controlled to create this perfect storm and then imagined
how unlikely that would be. Never allowed to have specific types of
experiences; always surrounded by people who mislead me in very cruel
ways; always led to believe it was my fault; never given so much as a
pat on the back. Mostly, everyone around me knew and if I was lucky
they were nice, but it's like these assholes gamified it! They made
workplace mobbing and general bullying into a game where if you didn't
score enough points by publicly invoking emotional pain, you might be
next! It's so fucking sick and now it's undeniably rampant at a time
when the US is closer than ever to being caught. My experience seems
to be rare. Somewhere between one in a million or one in a thousand,
but it's amazing how, even though I fled from city to city, the people
who coordinated this? THEY WERE ALWAYS THERE WAITING. It couldn't have
been that rare.

Then, when I blogged about all the workplace bullying and mobbing
techniques they used on me, my friends and family jumped down my
throat! Writing about it was the only thing that helped me move on
because I no longer had to waste my breath talking about it for hours,
just to have the friends who listened abruptly become aloof. And
that's part of it: the time I spent ruminating on it or talking about
it to other people! GODDAMIT! People I know who were involved they
would let me waste my breath, completely aware of what was happening,
just to drain my time, as if they got points for riling me up.

#### *Those who were complicit* who would listen could only say:

#### &#x2605; Just ignore it next time...

#### &#x2605; Oh, you're just paranoid!

#### &#x2605; I think something is wrong with you!

#### &#x2605; Just forget about it. Don't play their games!

#### &#x2605; If it happens more than once, it's you, silly!

No one believed me. When I wrote all the specific and general things
these people did to me, I could simply point to that blog. I wrote
17,000 words in Feb 2015. Instantly, those people who were complicit?
They jumped down my throat, saying "David, aren't you trying to get a
job?! You'll never get a job! DAVID, YOU HAVE TO DELETE THAT!"

Turns out, it's impossible for those exact people to not know. I'm
in the middle of writing some pieces on how everything affected my
psychology and sociology. In particular, I can show how those around
me chose the wrong way to handle my issues throughout my entire life,
but the first 20 years? That's forgiveable. These last five years?
That's going to be a lot harder, but I know they wouldn't do it if
they weren't forced to.

The reason they wanted me to delete it? I basically wrote a handbook
for the occult psychology used for CIA torture programs. This is
seriously dark shit, but not much worse than what you see in 48 Laws
of Power. Some of what I wrote was far more concise and complete
documentation than anything else out there. People have insinuated
that information like my writing is classified and that even my
memories could be classified because I am one of the few people
resilient enough to withstand this stuff without committing suicide or
whatever. I don't know what happens to the people that go through
this.

### These Sadistic Sociopaths Had A Budget!

Even though I have PTSD, I'm treated as though if someone undid the
negative things they did to screw with me, that it would be
counterproductive to the way they've spent their funds. Like speaking
to a therapist that might actually help me would undo years of work &
risk, not to mention millions in budget. Then they gaslight me to make
me feel like I'm crazy and I've been jerked around so much, there's
almost nothing left. If I work somewhere, there has to be someone
there who's approved to be my "handler" and this person effectively
mismanages me into failure. If I managed to get a job where there
wasn't a handler, I fill out my I-9 form, DHS is immediately notified
and people in my destination receive *Community Notifications*, which
is a term I've heard aloud several times, early on in the workplace. I
thought I was tuned in to the right information and stayed clued in to
these potential rights abuses, but nothing's farther from the truth!
Every thing makes more sense looking back. Now I see the key phrases
and I can place the the procedures and remember the acronyms, almost
eidetically.

### This Psychological Torture Is Everywhere Now and It's Part of Something Else

Whatever happened, it's increased exponentially within the past three
years and year. I wish I could leave this soul-sucking Hell hole. It's
everywhere now and it's part of something bigger. Whoever is doing
this to America, they're really fucking up a lot of people's lives and
causing a lot of damage, as far as I can see. And it's being done in
such a way that lashes out at anyone who dares question things. Social
media is a distraction at best, at this point!  CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS,
NBC and sometimes even Fox ... it looks like anyone who asks real
questions loses their job. BTW, I'm not so predispositioned to believe
the right is always right. However, in our country's current
nightmare, they are right on it. Yet, they still aren't asking many
more questions than anyone else.

### Social Media Is Nothing More Than An Echo Chamber

#### And Somebody Handed Out Megaphones to the Retarded Parrots

Thanks a lot, by the way. For paying out SEO and Social Media
optimization to basically hand all these idiots under foreign
influence a bunch of megaphones.  Y'all gave megaphones ... to those
people? Social Media, and the news as well, is like a bunch of
retarded parrots right now. It's like you're only allowed to make
statements that adhere to a predetermined list of acceptable
rhetoric. And somewhere out there, there's a really heavy hand and if
you make people think: that heavy hand is going to knock you the fuck
out. Then they're going to threaten your family and threaten tactics
like the Mafia might use to pummel down on the guy who won't pay
protection money.

### Even the Mafia Polices Itself

I really gotta slow my roll here, 'cause I'm givin the Mafia a bad
Someone once told me "David, the government's like the Mafia. No, You
don't get it, the government is really like the Mafia." And everytime
I think I understand what they meant, I find out a couple years down
the road just how right they were.

Here's the deal though: even the Mafia has to keep itself in check
because the government is supposed to be the law. The Mafia will
impose constraints on it's behavior, so it doesn't end up with its
back against the wall like it was in Italy in the 80's and 90's: don't
fuck with people who aren't in the game; don't use violence as a
message if everyone's going to see it; don't fuck with the government
unless they fuck with you; yada, yada.

Well, who's watching the watchers? If even organized crime policies
itself to an extent, in fear of the government, then who deals with
corruption in the government when it starts dispensing retribution
like the Mafia? The answer lies in the Social Contract. The people
deal with it. And in America, our government is for the people, by the
people.

### Technology Throws the Social Contract's Validity into Question

However, in the 21st century, tyrrany has one major trick up its
sleeve that it didn't have in the 20th century: technology. This tool
threatens the underpinnings and essence of John Locke's Social
Contract. If America falls to tyranny, the world may never recover. If
we really need something like martial law, there better be a good
reason and there better be some mechanism built in that lets us end it
when its appropriate. And it would appear that, if we are descending
into tyranny, that is absolutely not the case because it really looks
like somebody's got a lot of organizations by the balls.

### The Collateral Damage is Immeasureable

In the process of doing clamping down and expending God knows how much
money doing it, they managed to make you believe it's your fault, all
while shielding the American Public from ever questioning whether this
could happen to someone. They will methodically and mathematically
ruin your life by constraining your social network and turning those
few social nodes you do have against you. And if those nodes don't
cooperate -- your best friends or closest family members -- well,
they'll be lucky to avoid getting on the shit list too. And if they do
actively, intentionally resist your treatment or help you in any way,
they better understand that they're going to be on that shit list.

### So You've Been Socially Nullified.

#### Nothing You Say Has Any Consequence

They wreck the finances, the mind and the social relations of anyone
this happens to, by the way. You can compile a list of victims by
looking at LinkedIn, Facebook, etc. and datamining that in context
with financial information. So, someone who should be making a ton of
money, but isn't and has social connections so minimalized, you'd
think they had a mental illness? *THAT GUY IS A VICTIM OF
PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE.* Why the minimalized social network? *THEY
DON'T WON'T OTHER PEOPLE TO HEAR ABOUT WHAT HAPPENS TO THE PEOPLE ON
THE SHIT LIST.*

### So You Have Been Psychologically Nullified

#### Your mental capability and desire to resist has been extinguished.

Your mind has been declawed. They do this intentionally. They look at
your life in terms of Maslov's Hierarchy of needs and they ruin it
from the top down to destroy your will to fight and they ruin it from
the bottom up to destroy your capability to fight. They minimalize
your social connections and make you a major drag on the people around
you, so they hate your dependence. They deceive the few people you
might have left and coerce them to turn them against you.

They have interacted with the APA and paid a few with questionable
morals to assess you, to assist in interactions with you, to analyze
said interactions with you. They will methodically deconstruct your
mind to the point where you are lucky if you don't end up committing
suicide. They want you to think that it's your fault to. They want
everyone around you to believe that it's your fault.

And most importantly, they want to destroy your will to fight back. If
possible, they'd like to induce Stockholm Syndrome. It's not always
possible because, again, you've got that bag on your head. There are
some people who aren't willing to become best buddies with their
torturers if specific things aren't articulated in very explicit, very
certain terms. I was one of those people, who refused to sign on the
dotted line with my emotional abusers. I didn't want to extend further
control to these assholes if it meant that I was agreeing to terms I
never understood, just because they dangled something in front of my
face, while never actually intending to give it to me.

It's like trying to haggle with a fucking palm reader or fortune
teller. Really? These people want to haggle while never using
articulate language because that would expand their own vulnerability
in the situation. They will not hesitate to listen in to your
conversations illegally in order to use suggestion and indirectly
refer to key phrases. It's all so they can get what they want and
never ever deliver on what you wanted ... because they never actually
even said that shit, you idiot. It was never written down.

You just sold your soul to be reduced to a former version of yourself
while they use weaponized psychology against you so that you chase
some half-assed pipedream they deluded you into thinking you might
actually get. They won't ever deliver on something like that. Why?
Because if they did, you'd stop chasing that and it makes it harder to
control you. The goal is control. If they give you what you want,
without strings, they lose control. You can always be sure that this
party will NEVER do anything that relinquishes control. In every
situation, you can fucking bet on it. You could set your watch by it.

### So You Have Been Financially Nullified

#### You Have No Options to Defend Yourself or to Run.

Why do you think they sap the finances of anyone they subdue via
psychological torture? *BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT YOU TO RUN TO ANOTHER
COUNTRY AND FIND OUT HOW MUCH YOUR LIFE CHANGES WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE
TO DEAL WITH THIS SHIT.* They don't want you to inform people from
other countries about what's happening. Why? Because other countries
wouldn't sit back and watch this shit happen?

### So You've Been Socially, Psychologically and Financially Ruined...

... What's left? Who the fuck knows, but if you're not out there
scoring points and gaining ground for them, you're useless. The truth
is that you never mattered.  What matters is helping them extend this
CIA MKUltra experiment that escaped the lab. They want you to wire
together and string up another puppet. That's all. It's like someone
crossed MKUltra with a Ponzi scheme and called it Guantanamo, then
they claimed it was for national security and, hell, why not call it a
religion too.



# OPM Triggered a Septic Crisis

Personally, I can't figure out what the hell happened in the
world. All I know is that I *allegedly* had a conversation with
someone who, amidst many sketchy questions, also asked *verbatim*:

> What is the worst thing that could happen to the United States?

Because of my tendency to think this person was "my team" and to
believe this person knew the ins and outs of the game, I thought they
wanted to source me like the Red Cell author Mark Henshaw. So, almost
without hesitation, I told them: whatever institution runs clearance
for the United States, hack that shit and you run the game. I didn't
know what the OPM was. We looked that up on wikipedia. This was in
2013.

### Beware the Military-Industrial Complex

All I knew was that I had gotten fired from several jobs and, for some
of them, it seemed it was because I couldn't pass a clearance
screening. After all, those military & United States Army types that I
had problems with ... they seemed to have pushed me out of my job and
ruined my life. And when I worked at CCS, they had recently funded a
startup that would provide protection for the electric grid...

### Steve Jobs, the Deadhead With a Top Secret Clearance

So I had looked up the docs and process on clearance to understand
that process. Could I qualify? Well, according to the FBI, I had
smoked weed and told people about it more than seven times, so
... NOPE. Other than that, I would have though. And Steve Jobs did
acid and he got a clearance. After subsequently reading an article
Gawker linked to that mentioned it would soon become hard to
obtain/keep a job in America without being capable of obtaining Secret
or Top Secret, I realized what a major vulnerability this was for
America.

### They Blinded Themselves With Their Own Smear Campaign

How could some two-pence loser who was so imcompetent he couldn't hold
a job able to pinpoint the single largest vulnerability in the United
States Government? Because this ostracized, pathetic excuse for an
American understood logistics and bureaucratic largess. That's
why. The problem is that the government, in an ongoing attempt to ruin
my life justified it's actions by claiming I was dangerous at best
and, worse, I was incompetent. The left hand wasn't aware of the right
hand's interactions and someone blinded the rest of it's
organizations. They justified their actions that prevented/interfered
with employment and ruined my life by saying I was a threat and that I
was worthless anyways.

The truth is, they couldn't have been more wrong. I have terrible
short-term memory, but I'm a genius on par with Einstein, though I've
accomplished absolutely nothing. No one bothered to help me grow that
part of myself and about 5-10 years, there has been a significant
attempt at ensuring that no one ever did! And now they can hide
neither my stellar luminosity nor their bloodlust to turn my life into
an example nor all the collateral damage in which they are 1000 times
more accountable.

### Here's My Argument, in a Nutshell

#### &#x2605; They worked very hard to plan this before 2013

#### &#x2605; They created this and have worked very hard to keep it in motion

#### &#x2605; They continually persued action when they could have ended it at any time;

#### &#x2605; They funded action through a dozen different government institutions

#### &#x2605; I have no money and I've made less than $3000 in 2015 and 2016

#### &#x2605; They lied to themselves and blinded themselves with a decade long smear campaign

#### &#x2605; They manipulated investigations and records to cover their tracks

#### &#x2605; They didn't have an endgame for this particular game-state

#### &#x2605; They got caught wanting to use me as a scapegoat

#### &#x2605; They got caught approaching me to use me as a double to rally a racist movement they could then justify in quashing, among many other very questionable things.

#### &#x2605; They've been lying. I've been trying my best to be honest. With both myself and any others.

#### &#x2605; They've micromanaged my medical care, although I'm currently happy with my doctors

#### &#x2605; Someone has occasionally swapped out my prescriptions, AFAIK

#### &#x2605; I have been warned about compounding pharmacies

#### &#x2605; I have been drugged without my knowledge, occasionally

#### &#x2605; It would appear that I may be involved in human medical testing of psychological treatment, drugs, etc. without my knowledge or approval ... and possibly even surgery.

#### &#x2605; Unconscious indications from real friends and from family would indicate that they have been gagged and can't associate with me or do anything that might help me out: in my personal life, in my mental health situation, in my social life, in my professional life.

#### &#x2605; It would appear that people have been gagged with National Security "Letters" whatever the fuck those things actually are. I very seriously doubt that if you got a National Security Letter, it would arrive in the mail as a certified letter ... or leave any physical evidence.

#### &#x2605; Any evidence in my favor is suppressed

#### &#x2605; The bureaucracy is abused in their favor and I still question whether I'm crazy for thinking there is any "court case" happening.

#### &#x2605; So do my "friends" & family. Friends is in quotes because they micromanage my social network to reduce exposure of information that might be used in my own defense and to exert near-total control of my psychological state

#### &#x2605; They actively interfere actively & passively with the function of online social networking algorithms to reduce exposure there

#### &#x2605; They are intimately aware of information I have revealed to "friends" in confidence or typed into files on my computer which I have never spoken aloud or have spoken aloud, alone in my own home

#### &#x2605; They use such information against me to encourage me to "end" any attempt to understand what is happening to me. (e.g. to understand why my own family treats me like shit) or to stand up for myself

#### &#x2605; They attempt to silence me by leveraging their control of my social network to indirectly lead me into assuming a myriad of fallacious self-conflicting beliefs about my situation. The information they have projected to me constructs cover story that invalidates itself a thousand times over that looks like a retarded kid tried to solve a Sudoku puzzle. This impairs my own mental health situation, making things more volatile.

#### &#x2605; They are quite aware of the volatility of the situation. They try to hold me accountable for collateral damage when they could have attempted to correct this situation at any time.

#### &#x2605; Even though they are aware of the volatility of the situation and have indicated constant awareness of the current state of the situation, they still encourage people to poke me with a "ten-foot pole"

#### &#x2605; They employ "street theater" to push people away from me in social settings these are like contrived conversations that are either relevant to me, my current situation or to pushing people away from me. Yeh .... it's wierd, but apparently people really do get paid to do this shit.

#### &#x2605; They have control of and access to "agreements" that they won't let anyone else see. I don't understand what I agreed to and I don't think I ever signed anything.

This shit goes on and on and on. I'm being kind when I say this is a
dozen Watergates.

And they've given me several dozen "explanations" based on comments I
made to myself, of which they were aware of recordings. I know who's
involved with this ... basically, considering they are micromanaging
my social network, assume that anyone who is "allowed" to persist in
interacting with me is involved. It's really as simple as that. And
how secure is that? It's not, which speaks volumes to their intent
nullify me as a liability ....

### They Never Had an Endgame For This Game State

This is kind of what makes me feel justified in continued action to
push someone to admit what happened to me. There's no sunshine and
rainbows coming out this unicorn's butt. Their endgame consisted of
incapacitated me, however it happened. In 2013, I knowingly convinced
them that I was suicidal and that they could just push me to suicide.
LMAO. Yeh, that was fucked up but encouraged them to produce volumes
of evidence doing exactly what I had expected they were doing in my
life all along: psychologically torturing me to push me to suicide.

# Ye Olde ROFL Copter

That observation, as well as many others things I've seen. "They"
never, ever had a very nice endgame planned. Again, whoever "they" is
... there are several factions involved in this, at odds with each
other. Notice the attractiveness of those options below. They sound
super fun don't they?

#### Other endgames include: subdued and gagged through coercion, complete subversion, suicide, "suicide", auto accident, mental incapacitation via psychological means, mental incapacitation through neurological or pharmaceutical means, some other physical incapacitation, cancer, death in general...

None of them sound appealing to someone who earnestly believes that,
over the course of a decade, he got mugged on a weekly basis for a
grand total of ten billion dollars. And for someone who seems to have
anonymously contributed to society in a myriad of ways via some
serendipitous distributed inellectual property attack and hasn't
earned a dollar for any of it. Sorry. None of those work.

### So Have You Tried ... ?

> You should try .... hmmmm gotta think real hard about this ... have
> you tried fucking fixing what you broke? No?

Oh, that's right, you can't interact in a way that would indicate
you were involved. I forgot. So I guess that means you just don't
have to do shit. Well, none of the emotional trauma or protracted
psychological torture or career assassination matters then. Jeez.
Forget it. All that collateral damage? I guess there was just
nothing you could have done then, huh?

### It'll All Come Out in the Wash

Oh, well, it'll fix itself right?
None of that matters then, huh?
I guess nothing that happened to me matters. Or America or any
other American who's been in my own shoes.

Eventually you can fix this. I believe in you, 'Murkinya .. woops!
I mean, "America" ...

# Ohh, I Have An Idea!

### You Should Invent a Disease and a Pattern Language!

Just invent a pattern language that maps to real current event. Like a
disease or something. Oh, or Qg'daphie Duck! Yeh, whatever his fucking
name is. Fuck that guy anyway! How's a major media organization like
CNN or some shit supposed to keep that straight.

This will let you keep your citizens in a state of constant confusion.
You know, so in case any of them get real wise and try to "ask
questions" or "stand up for their rights" -- well, they won't
understand what's happening. And fuck 'em, right? Who are they
anyways?

Well, according to current events from 2010 through 2016, those people
who didn't understand were the middle class and upper middle class and
small business owners. Ya know, the same ones the IRS was robbing
blind and blocking with politically motivated tax audits. Yeh, those
rich fuckers. The ones that pay the majority of the taxes. Those
guys. Fuck 'em. Especially the libertarians! Those guys! Asking all
them pesky questions about the Constitution and the Bill of
Rights. They're so smart and patriotic and they don't want to be
dependent on the government! Ugh they make me so mad!!!

All of this corrosive, counter-productive activity spiked around 2011
around the same time the Occupy protests started going down. That's
when I really noticed it happening and first could ever associate it
with the left. I believe that, in my own life, the seeds were sown in
2010 at the latest. It seems like the continuation and growth of
secret repressive reprogramming programs in this country that could be
traced back to the early Cold War. I don't know what's driving it out
of nowhere, but it's getting a little hard to ignore and I think
there's some runaway faction in the left that seized control of the
totalitarian machinery created by Bush in response to 9/11.

Back to that disease. It's probably going to have to be a real thing
though. Like ... I donno, let's just say Zika. Now the interesting
thing about Zika is that it didn't occur until after we went down to
South America, played God and tried to destroy the population of
Dengue fever carrying mosquitoes...

**This is your friendly reminder that, as much as it seems that I have
leaked, I really do have cards to play until the end of time. So at
any time, feel free to acknowledge what you did to me, using my real
name, and make it publicly known at least some of the things you did
to me and then STOP fucking with the lives of me, my friends, family
members and local community. I know what you're doing.**

... moving on. We destroyed that population of mostquitoes with
genetic engineering. The ones with the hemorrhagic fever dengue,
that's pronounced DEN-GAY. Den, as pronounced in Snoden. What
happened? This was a "power-vacuum" in the l33t speak of
mosquitologists. I warned in 2013 that we absolutely should not be
playing God by screwing around with the mosquito populations. I didn't
know what happened, but that's what happened. The evidence is right
there in the DNA of the mosquito population. No more dengue fever. Now
we have prevelant Zika and people don't die as much so that's
nice. The problem is, well, now their babies live on and suffer from
"intellectual disabilities" for the rest of their life.

Ok, that's bad. So it's unquestionable that no one would ... question
Zika right? Good! Then if we want to map a pattern language to it, we
can do that, just we did with Qdg'dfaffy D'fuck, whatever his fucking
name was. So, just like no one would question us running air raids on
Bengnhazi to topple a dictator, none of these meddlin' kids are gonna
ask questions when we propose duplicitous plans of attack on
Zika. Great! That means that we can treat a real disease in South
America and simultaneously treat a vaguely defined "mind-virus" in
America, repurposing the CDC to "treat" that.

How do you treat a mind-virus anyways? And isn't it interesting that
this occurs at precisely the time when nuclear medicine's most
world-changing applications are publicly becoming known: MRI's and
machine learning. Another interesting point: there's recently been a
ton of investment into nuclear medicine right here in the Roanoke
Valley, on the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars into Virginia
Tech's medical facilities here. As interested and forward thinking as
I am, you'd think I would have interfaced with someone in Roanoke on
MRI datamining. Nope. The closest I've come is talking to someone with
Virginia Tech's new Neuroscience program, whom my paranoid mind
immediately flagged as being involved with whoever's running this g4ng
st4lking and str3et th3atr3 on me.

Again, the smokescreen on news and social media is so thick, no one
else is seeing this coming. Everyone's so entertained with this joke
of an election that no one's asking questions about anything real. And
I can't see the forest for the trees here. Is this really going to be
good for America, in the end? Is this part of a concerted strategy on
our part? Or is it a power grab? Because, to me, it looks a lot closer
to a power grab: you can't ask questions; both sides seem to be aware
of things they aren't letting the public on to; both sides are acting
like it doesn't matter what they do now because they won't be
explaining it later on; people are encouraged to play a part in this
drama.

And if it's a power grab, then Zika would make a good cover for the
CDC to enforce policy on a virus of the mind. No, I'm not even
joking. And that's what Obama wants to do, allegedly. I've seen
articles that claim the CDC will begin treating "negative
information/facts" and "viral belief systems." And going back to
neurology, there have been tons of studys on implanting memories and
removing memories.

These studies scare the shit out of me, but they seem to be written
for pretty basic shit, but what if their capacity for neurological
manipulation is much greater than that? Can you imagine what damage
could be done if you could implant/suggest false memories that are
used to... I donno... compel someone to confess against themselves in
a FISA court case? Who would believe that person anyways?! And if it
doesn't matter whether someone would believe that person in the
future, when such technology must inevitably become public
... couldn't it be argued that whoever was doing that did not actually
plan on handling that scenario in the future? ... By collapsing the
system and initiating some tyrant's totalitarian wet drean?

### Neurological Programs and Leveraging the Medical System to Attack Belief Systems

#### (1) We've exponentiated our capacity for neurological mapping & manipulation.

#### (2) There are rumors about leveraging the CDC to "medicate" beliefs.

#### (3) With greater neurological prowess and greater understanding of the nature of information, there will be a tendancy to view problems related to information & beliefs as actually being medical in nature, since medicine would have the ability to "treat" a person by adding or removing memories.

#### (4) We've seen that the CDC has grabbed more and more powers in this regard to attack diseases. If someone is planning to repurpose the CDC to be used in such a way, we would see lobbyists and congressmen pushing for extra powers to be given to the CDC.

#### (5) The next step is the legal redefinition of belief systems as a disease and they will utilize terrorism to justify this.

It's important to note that nationalizing medicine is required for
communism for a plethora of reasons. Firstmost, it promises the lower
classes that they'll no longer be burdened by their health. In a more
sinister way, it provides the government dominion over your body and
mind. Since the only way to seek treatment is through the government,
your health can be used as leverage against you, not unlike how
families a decade ago would be hesitant to quit an unfair job if would
risk losing health insurance. It's really something to think
about. There are no perfect systems.

Quite often, I get the feeling that the nominal leaders in our
government really have no idea what's happening. And if something like
this were to be rammed through that would certainly be the case. At
that point, our minds are nothing more than disk drives to these
people, who become like anti-virus software. Who would determine what
is a "valid" belief and what is a "dangerous" belief?

Someone with the logistic infrastructure to implement these programs
in secret would obviously tend to use them. Why else would they spend
so much time & money building it all out. So, if someone used powers
like this to fix their problems by rewriting someone's memories, then
could this same group of people have any real long-term vision? Does
absolute power actually give you the ability to envision utopia? Of
course, utopia doesn't exist, but simply having the power doesn't mean
that you know how to lead people or even where to lead them.

If these neurological procedures to toy with memory are possible,
call into question legal axioms that have held for thousands of
years. It's really dirty. You could find yourself accused of rape
without ever knowing about it by multiple witnesses who are
emotionally distraught from the pain they experienced. You could be
falsely accused and have your life flipped upside down and to these
people, it's all real. It's just as real as though it has actually
happened! This is all hypothetical of course, but science fiction's a
great way to stay on top of this stuff.

### A Diagnosis For Political Dissidents

#### "Borderline" Personality Disorder

Who can believe what we see on Social Media or anywhere for that
matter. Newspapers are bankrupt and everything digital is ephemeral,
so whenever "this" all goes down, whatever "this" is, there will be no
trace... Obama wants to leverage the CDC to attack people who have
"Oppositional Defiant Disorder" or "Borderline Personality Disorder."
Now, remember, the latter was just added to the DSM a year or
so. *THEY CREATED A DIAGNOSIS FOR POLITICAL DISSiDENTS!*



... How much more Soviet-style and Cuban-style abuse of the "medical"
and "psychiatric" institutions do you need before you realize what's
going on here? Do you want to post a doctor for every neighborhood?
*THEY CHANGED THE DSM TO CREATE A DIAGNOSIS FOR POLITICAL DISSiDENTS!*
Who has the influence to do that?

Should we wait for these people to add
[a subtype of *schizophrenia* for non-schizo dissidents](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sluggish_schizophrenia),
just like the Soviets did
[with their abuses of psychiatry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_abuse_of_psychiatry_in_the_Soviet_Union)?
I'm fairly confident that psychiatry has been abused the world over
for politcal reasons with varying degrees of frequency, awareness and
acceptance. And I've gotta tell you, with data-driven medicene and
with the increasing power to map the mind, a tyrannical government has
orders of magnitude more capability to do this.

It's frightening, but the truth is that's just not going to work
anymore! For as much as the science empowers and tempts these would-be
tyrants, it also begins to empower their victims as well. In the end,
data analysis will help people, as long as we don't let a totalitarian
government stamp out all resistence and seize total control of
communication networks, information & medicine.

That's right: these power hungry tyrants will be tempted and they'll
be caught red-handed. This is part of what we're seeing: the science
expands their capabilities & ethically questionable moves are made
without full understanding of how the future will enable us to track
the data back and learn what really happened. We've seen it with
disparity in ticketing and local law enforcement in places like
Ferguson, where authorities didn't realize that, yeh, you can enforce
laws like that, but three decades later, that data's going to be
accessible!

I'm making this known now, so that we cease it and avoid it
altogether! If you poison people with GMO's to induce an antibody
allergy, antibodies are mappable. There's an "antinome" for
understanding the extent and structures of antibodies formed in
people's bodies that act as a record of poisons or GMO organisms they
might have been exposed to. Sean Parker is funding research on it. So,
you better not do that or we're going to find out!

Furthermore, if you deploy GMO's microbes on people to alter the
function of their intestinal flora, without their consent, then we're
going to conduct genomic analysis on that, too. So, we'll look at
evolutionary trees and see that, hmmmm ... looks like these people all
have been exposed to bacteria that couldn't have possibly evolved in
nature because there's no traceable tree of mutations that leads from
the naturally occuring bacteria to the GMO bacteria. BUSTED! ... if
that has happened.

This is also concerning because it could be an attack vector for
technological terrorists, which is why people might claim I shouldn't
even talk about it. WHAT?! That's actually exactly why we should
become aware of it as early as possible by geologically tagging
samples of gut bacteria and other infections. So that if it happens,
everything is traceable and we can respond to it as early as
possible. Bacteria a little different than other organisms though
because they can share circular DNA plasmids.



The technological options for genomic data science expand with
expansions of computing power. This is some seriously powerful stuff &
something I was working on in March and April. If I had managed to
complete what I had designed -- the math, the software and basic ideas
for hardware based on these ideas, which was a Bio Processing Unit
(BPU) -- and if these ideas were truly novel, then I swear to God,
it'd be worth winning a Nobel Prize. It's like genomic data science on
steroids and, honestly, it might not actually be possible. Who knows?

I don't. I am specifically not allowed "intellectual stimulation." My
family freaks out when I try to take a coursera class or watch
lectures on Math and Plasma Physics. Yeh, because I actually am
delusional enough to think I might make a difference in fusion someday
and I'm not ashamed to admit it, however crazy the world wants to act
like I am. In fact, I know I could make a difference in such a field,
if only indirectly.

If what our government is mercilessly squashing in America is
curiosity and innovation driven by a lust for knowledge and
self-actualization, then what the fuck are we doing to our economy as
we step foot into a 21st century!? I cannot appropriately emphasize
how the 21st century economy will be based on intellectual property
and that, while it might be unfair for a segment of the global economy
to have an insurmountable advantage there, I'd rather it be us if it's
going to be anyone. That's because I know that someone truly worthy of
being a steward of IP like that would be willing to share it with all
others instead of using it to their own advantage. While I trust some
groups in the Western world with such responsibility, I'm not so sure
that some groups in the global economy would execute that duty
altruistically.

### What Makes a Good Steward of Future Intellectual Property Holdings?

And its not a joke: we're getting close to a world that might be
controlled by esoteric groups of corporate conglomerates who act as
gatekeepers of intellectual property for specific industries, where it
would be impossible to advance in some technology without their
blessing. Depending on how they leverage influence like that, such a
world could be better off for it or certainly doomed, were greedy
self-interest to delude whoever holds the keys to genomic science or
nano science.

This isn't actually a novel idea. Nope, it's a novel idea! Literally:
in William Gibson's brilliant Neuromancer -- one of the best books
I've ever read whence the Matrix was a major departure -- the
Tessier-Ashpool family maintains a monopoly over intellectual property
related to artifical intelligence. I don't think I'm throwing out
spoilers here. This family has mostly withdrawn from society and their
duty is an unwavering, merciless suppression of any possibility rogue
AI tech might emerge and take root in the world. That's a nightmare
scenerio in many sci-fi books.

This family runs the "Turing Registry" which has it's own secret
police, kinda. Think Rothschilds, but for AI instead of banking. In
this world, if you ever came close to someone connected to the
Tessier-Ashpools, it's either because you're very fortunate and
well-respected or because you should disappear without telling anyone
and spend the rest of your life in a secret underground bunker, amidst
isolated seclusion. They just don't play and, my memory fails me
because I read Neuromancer three years ago and I have an overactive
imagination, but they're not exactly evil for it. They don't care if
you didn't mean to and it ain't personal, but it gets personal. This
family of characters simply does not want the wrong things to happen
with regard to AI & if you get close to that, they'll find you. Like
Hollywood.  Don't worry, don't call us, we'll call you. The end.

### Weighiing Pros and Cons of IP Distribution Endgame Scenarios

It's very possible that similar families or multinational holdings
companies might emerge to run things in the pre-Singularity economy of
the 21st century. They would manage equity and intellectual property
with regard to specific companies. This is actually the endgame for
the global economy, barring civilizational collapse or a breakdown of
international agreements. The seeds of this trend can be seen in
holdings companies today for patents, *some* of whom you might call
patent trolls.

There is some set of companies that own and license a ton of patents
out there. These companies and their holdings represent a distribution
of IP. There are some distributions of IP which would be very
beneficial or very detrimental for the welfare of the common person,
for safety in regard to technological evolution, for equitable "fair"
economic scenarios, etc. One needs to consider the present state of
the system, including who owns what, along with the technological
innovations which are likely to happen, the codification of those
innovations into patents, the changing value of past/present/future
patents, as well as future changes in the system. So this global
economic system can evolve towards one which is fair and beneficial or
one where greed and lust for power overtake such fragile notions of
peace and equitable prosperity.

### So, You're Telling Me...

TODO: 3rd world meme

So when people say "Oh he's just full of excuses and never built
anything himself" or "He's not really that smart/intelligent" or "He
thinks he knows how to run a company, but he has no idea what he's
doing" or "He'll never amount to anything" ... For those detractors, I
definitely accept that many of your critiques contain more truth than
I'd like. If you're statement is true, thank you for your criticism. I
hope you mention it to me, instead of just others. If the intent of
your criticism is positive, again, thank you. I'd love to hear what
you have to say. How am I supposed to progress if I don't get
feedback. However, if your intent is negative or you're just trying to
psyche me out, then please go fuck yourself. Keep in mind that I
didn't get an education and the government has a unathorized budget
with my name on it. And, in spite of that, I managed to not succumb to
their projected delusion, constant gaslighting, subversion/coercion of
my friends and family, or their constant distractions. In spite of all
that, I never gave up on myself or stopped believing in myself.

I have a lot to learn and maybe I'll never experience victory, but why
would these people ever prevent me from attempting business or
science, unless ... could it be that they are terrified of any
success? **I just discussed personal ideas on the endgame of the
distribution of intellectual property in the 21st economy.** Who the
fuck says that?! Who thinks about that?

Furthermore, my intentions were always positive. If my intentions
weren't positive, would I have ever thought about how alternate
distributions of intellectual property might impact mankind? Nope. I
would be much busier making money, counting money, thinking about how
to make more money or trying to figure out how to spend it. I only
wanted wealth because I saw it as a way and means to empower real
change for the benefit of others. Not just myself. Though I can't lie,
I did like the idea of fondue parties, champagne, yachts, private
islands and disposable helicopters.  Actually, today, all of that
materialistic stuff represents a waste of thought, time and energy. I
don't want it.

# The War Is For Your Mind. You Are Fighting For Your Soul.

Apparently, the terrorist of the 21st century looks a lot like
me. *WHAT THE FUCK?!* I write about altruism. I'm completely detached
from whether I'll obtain profit or credit from anything I think
of. They've taken everything from me and I've finally figured out that
I can't do anything with my intelligence or creativity. They budget
millions of dollars ensuring that I never connect to the people or
resources that would lead me to success. So I resort to tweeting out
ideas for revolutionary medical methodologies, mathematical questions,
links to shitty reflections on questions philosophers answered years
ago, business models for startups, and ideas for IP related to
VR/AR. And ... the government considers people like me a threat? I'm a
threat?!

*I SPECIFICALLY AVOIDED VIOLENCE AND ADVOCATION OF VIOLENCE BECAUSE I
AM A PACIFIST AT HEART AND I KNEW HOW THESE LAWS WOULD BE APPLIED.* If
you are wise, you will embrace and proclaim pacifism too. This tyranny
will not hesitate to destroy you, your life, your health, and your
family. The notion of justice will be a casualty, as will truth and
property and humanity. They will take these things and desecrate them
with prejudice and they will do so violently. Do not fall to their
level. Stand up for yourself and on't waste your own life, but the
second you take an action that encourages violence or is violent in
itself, you'll find that they will destroy everything in your life
with indiscriminate, violent force, all while claiming that you are
the terrorist.

### Peace Though Strength of Body, Mind and Spirit

What people need is peace through strength. Buddhists profess
non-violence, but practice martial arts because of how it strenthens
and expands their mind. Further, tyrants and opportunistic people will
attack those they perceive as being weak. Therefore, weakness invites
an opportunity for violence. However, movements lead by people like
Martin Luther King Jr. and Mahatmas Gandhi would never have grown or
blossomed if they condoned violence.

Those two movements for civil rights, sovereignty and progress were
successful precisely because they forced their opponents to question
their application of force. They forced the brutal to question their
acts of violence. An eye for an eye makes the whole world go
blind. Instead Gandhi forced those who could not be reconciled with to
lash out and, in their own pacifist reaction to it, forced these
people to realize what they were doing was wrong. It didn't matter
what degree of brutality was applied.

Gandhi and his movement grew through painful cooperative sacrifice,
which led his people to feel personally invested. And, in this way, he
led them to secure moral authority, the higher ground in the minds of
men. It reinforced their resolve and produced a uniform mental
solidarity in his followers. They developed a cohesive understanding
of their situation and strategy. They developed a long-term
understanding of how their tactics would lead to the attainment of
their goals.

In a movement like that of Gandhi's, if you do not have clearly
communicated goals, you have nothing. If you don't have unsurveillable
channels of communication or the capacity to ensure that a friend
received your words ... you cannot develop coherent goals, so it
doesn't matter what they are or whether they are reasonable. And if
you do not know you are fighting, you have nothing but victims of
cowardly tactics. Finally, if you do not know why you are fighting,
all you have is excruciating chaos and protracted, disenchanting
misery!

> SO FUCK YOU FOR THAT ONE, COWARDS. Leaders? Really?

And goddammit that is precisely why I am am livid our opponents would
hide this from us! That is so cowardly. You are spineless cowards. In
the business world, your audience and your market is everything. Look
at who supports you and look at who suffers for truth and justice.
Among these people, with whom would you choose to surround yourself?
Would you choose those who bend and break? Those who'd sell their
grandmother for a nickel? Those who have no concept of truth or
justice whatsoever?

Or would you surround yourself with those whom you may have some
disagreement but are sure that they unquestioningly see the same truth
as you because you know these people care about truth more than
anything in the world. Because truth is truth. It doesn't matter if
you see it or I see it or a child sees it or fucking nobody sees
it. *IT IS THE TRUTH.* And all I know is that my movement is united
through truth. We stand for justice and for freedom and for peace and
for prosperity and for compassion. We stand for the right of men to be
the best men that they can be. But most of all, we stand for truth.

### What Is Our Salt Marsh?

For those who are interested in doing the right thing and putting an
end to this incomprehensible, draconian tyranny that is so
disorganized, it could hardly be said to be self-serving ... this is
the perhaps the most important thought in this article.

> What is our Salt Marsh?

And so, our movement needs to identify our own Salt March. What is it
that is just so humiliatingly stupid to be illegal? What policies are
critical to our suppression? One is certainly the surveillance and
manipulation of digital channels of communication. Another problem in
our government that needs to be highlighted is the people's complete
lack of influence. For a constitutional republic, it's ironic that,
again, we have neither a republic that enforces the will of the people
through representatives nor a Constitution that is relevant.

Another is the secrecy surrounding this incomprehensibly heinous
system of anti-courts. A court pushes for justice by standing for
truth. A court must balance justice with the protection of rule of
law. When there is neither, it cannot be said to be a court.

In America, these tribunals are nothing other than a shield for
cowards to hide their atrocities.  I wish I could name a case that
disproved that statement, but I can't. I've never seen video of these
terrorist being led to justice. We don't even know their names. Half
the time, they use false Arabic names for people who aren't even
Arabic! They do so to interfere with oversight from any superiors and
prevent the actions of congressmen or the American people. That is,
hands down, the single most racist thing the United States has done in
the 21st century. That's unconscionable. It's dehumanizing. It's
inspires hatred of people on a racial basis. But I guess that's OK
because ...

> "FUCK DEM TOWELHEADS! 'MERICA!! Human Rights?! For A-rabs? Fuck 'em!"

Human rights for americans who've lost their citizenship? Oh NOW it's
a problem. In this case, there are people who are subject to secret
courts, which seemingly function without any direct interaction
between the judged and those who judge.

All I know is that, concerning the "courts" for national security and
concerning the OFAC labelling and sanctioning of terrorists, I can
easily ask a dozen questions, referencing only the governments laws
and regulations itself, that would instantly shatter the illusion that
the news and the official story in this country is nothing but a
brazen boldfaced lie to observe reactions to identify threats to
tyrrany. It's psychological warfare.

Call me crazy, but it's really not that complicated. All I know is
that there are people that would get very angry if I publicly pointed
out these references to United States federal code and friends/family
who'd get fightened to the point of self-defecation if I made
particular statements. Like the ones I'm typing right now. Why is
that? Why is it that my family would react in that way? What could be
so horribly wrong?

Maybe I have an overactive imagination, but whatever is going on, that
system of military tribunals (est. by MCA 2006 and 2009) combined with
policies set by FISA 2008 and the annual rubber-stamped NDAA, it's
unquestionable. And especially Guantanamo: that's so completely
unreproachable that it would appear people as powerful as presidents
or generals are threatened if it looks like they might ask too many
questions.

In fact, amongst some blurry memories are some where I was told that
every single person who had been down the road I was going down had
died. Whoever stated this, if it's legit, made it clear that becoming
a casualty of this situation was not something that could happen or
may happen. I was told that it was something that almost certainly
would happen. And, at that time, I didn't care. I wasn't really aware
of what I was doing or saying, which is why this is all so fucking
dumb anyways.

I do know that my answers during *whatever-the-fuck-that-was* and even
the way in which they were stated, seem to authentically reflect my
beliefs and knowledge and personality, though there have been dozens
of hard-to-catch anachronisms, including my understanding of when the
Boston Marathon bombing occured. In these memories, I thought it had
been well over a year since that happened. That's what I *felt*, but I
was told that it had been about a month. I have never had my questions
answered or ever given the opportunity to ask questions.

Concerning explanations, I have been given dozens of cover stories
that each conflict with each other, in specific detail as well as in
the implied agenda/goal. These cover stories all indicate that people
have been listening in to me and observing nearly everything I've done
in order to figure out, basically, just whatever they needed to say to
get me to shut the fuck up and stop making noise. At the same time,
the same people are prodding me, gaslighting me, surveilling me to
drive my paranoia and using my psychology against me to knowingly lead
me to create collateral damage, which I was then blamed for. It's been
insinuated that my memories are classified. That's wierd. Anyways,
this is all so fucking crazy that I usually wrap it all up in
something I claim is a sci-fi movie pitch. All I know is that my mind
only mysteriously schiz's out for precisely this singular
event. That's it. Just that one 48-hour stretch of memories glitches
everything out. There are almost no other glitches.

Furthermore, I've been threatened to STFU via vague insinuation to
avoid talking about it by the same people who seem to want to:

#### (1) Use it for something

#### (2) Hide knowledge of it from me

#### (3) Indicate knowledge of specific phrases or semantic details from it

#### (4) Control me through insinuation that a specific individual will soon make contact and my lovelife will be amazing, like a fucking palmreader or some shit.

#### (5) Control me through insinuation of sex and desire

#### (6) Lie to me via insinuation to delude me into assuming one of these cover stories is true...

This is what they are doing and saying, all while luring me to develop
trust, destroying other friendships that might happen, preventing me
from ever having opportunities and instilling general negativity, all
in order to psychologically torture me. Wow! That's wonderful, isn't
it! As embarrassingly unbelievable as this all sounds, it is
apparently true. Or something close to it. One crucial detail is that
everything is perfectly set up to prevent me from talking about it,
specifically, and to prevent me from writing and leaving a trace of my
existence, generally. At this point, I pretty much disregard almost
everything related to this by the way. Because it is fucking crazy. I
hate being controlled by my desires. I gave up driving because they
kept taking my license. I declared myself celibate because whoever
keeps fucking with my life, they want to cultivate a strong desire and
lust for sex to use it as a puppet string to control me with it. They
are so unbelievably predictable and cruel about everything. And they
do it all with a smile, without telling me why or allowing me the
slightest, even incidental, compassion or friendship from other
people. It's sick. It's disgusting and I am fucking tired of it.

I am absolutely not going to waste a second more on delusions. I am
absolutely not going to allow myself to be emotionally manipulated by
anything I don't know to be grounded in fact. Not guilt or shame or
fear or sadness or love or laughter. I wouldn't care if you insinuated
that I started World War 3. Don't guilt me with shit like that unless
you might actually bother to overtly state that or inform me in
writing. If it's not certain like 2+2=4, I am not going to emotionally
attach to it. Womp womp.

I'm going to move on and I'm going to keep being me, as hard as I can
possibly be that. I'm going to be as loud as possible because, until I
am otherwise notified, I haven't done a goddamn thing wrong. No one's
presented me with anything in writing. No one's said anything to me
directly & they wouldn't if I'm actually under constant surveillance.
Further, there are some of these people that would never do anything
that puts me in a better position in life. Ever. It's dead simple.
They'll do or say anything with a smile on their face and a blank gaze
over their eyes, but they will never contribute to a long-term goal of
mine ever, like helping me find a cofounder or launch an app. And that
is a fact. I can count on it and I do. It might as well be an axiom at
this point, like a constant unwavering, truth of the universe.

Then, there are others that continue helping me, but for some reason
they can't be seen or publicly known to have done it. It's like it'd
be a felony to be nice to me: to express a brief infatuation with me
or offer to be my cofounder or plan a surprise birthday party. That's
crazy!! If that's real and that's the world you live in, GLHF! Sucks
to be you. And if you were in my shoes, how much sanity would you have
left?  And those negatives, they're gaslighting me with it and with
facts and statements that only I should know.

Enough about reptilian space lizards from the center of the earth
... and back to those courts. What kind of court hides it's execution
of justice? In what kind of war do we mute our victories? That's not a
war. How do you win a war if no one knows who you're fighting? How do
you win a war if no one hears about your victories? Exactly.

(move the following?)

AND FUCK YOU, YOU RUINED MY LIFE! What was I supposed to do?! Roll over
like a dog? Grab a shovel and dig my own grave? Turn around and
inflict the same psychological lacerations upon others, hoping that my
own pain might be numbed? I want these bastards to acknowledge what
they did to me. I want to know why. I want it to be public. I want
them to stop doing it to other people. I want them to use my real
name. I want to know who got my family to be complicit. I want to know
what you threatened my mother with to break the strongest link in
nature: a mother's compulsion to protect her offspring. I want to know
who participated in this. Everyone. And I want to know what they did,
specifically. And maybe not everything, but I want it now. As in, five
minutes ago was too late!

### You Can Never Take My Dreams!

And hell no, I will never stop writing about it until you cut my
fingers off! I will never stop speaking about it until you cut my
toungue out! I will never stop thinking until you psychiatrically numb
me or neurologically castrate me. And I will never stop dreaming until
I stop sleeping!

And, if accountability is unacceptable for you, that's too bad. You
want to use me as a scapegoat? Go right ahead. I've already accepted
my own life as a cost of the progress I seek. There is no person on
earth who has the same support, the same vision and the same situation
as I. So it's realistic to think that no other person will be capable
of standing up with the same odds. So you can be sure that I will risk
being damned for eternity by being annulled to history or written down
into the pages of time as the antithesis of everything I every stood
for before I would ever become a muted martyr or an unknown martyr. A
muted martyr is just a body in a ditch. A mass grave.. You want to
scapegoat me to avoid your own culpability & you ask for my life,
legacy and soul?! *FOR WHAT?!*

What have these people who tortured me done for me? When I think back
to whatever allegedly happened ... really, what were the intentions of
these people? I am only here out of the love and compassion of
millions of people who don't even know my name. They treat me like
Voldemort, like I'm some kind of sick, twisted shadow of a person who
must never be named. They punish anyone who even accidentally shows
compassion or offers friendship to someone in my shoes. What kind of
world is that? Do you want to raise children in a world like that?

Seriously? The government tells you not only how to think, but who to
love and who to hate. They'll never tell you why. Anyone who questions
it should tremble in fear 'til they piss themselves, just to be
humiliated and ostracized for the smell. In a world that mindlessly
cheers on the very notion of truth itself, there is no hope for those
lost souls to know God. Ironically, God will eventually emerge and
become known, but a world like that descends into chaotic,
soul-sucking darkness that will envelope everything you know and love,
including your unborn children.

And that's why I'm begging people to stand up now before it's too
late. Whether you stand up for freedom, truth and justice today have
very little impact on the course of events that may or may not take
place over the next 4 years. However, in the government's zeal to hide
the truth from you, they have stolen your power to influence the real
problems, but far worse than that, if you do not raise your voice
RIGHT NOW, they will have marred your soul for eternity.

They have very recently broken family! They broke the concept of
family. They are pitting family members against each other and have
begun deconstructing what I consider perhaps the most important
concept to all of humanity, except that of God. They are doing this in
front of our eyes and we cheer it on, like this is some kind of
game. This isn't a game. There is a war going out there. The war is
for your mind and the most tragic casuality of this war will be your
soul.

Whoa. What a sidetrack. Back to hypothetical diagnostic methods using
NMR and MRI...

### Neural Bitemark Analysis - Data Science on Nuclear Medicine

If you try to make up psychiatric labels to harrass people, it's going
to become real clear as soon as you run data science on their MRI
scans:

> This guy just don't have a connectopathy like scizophrenia.
> Nope. This guy's neural networks show that he has autism. This guy's
> neural networks show that ... well we have no idea. He's
> normal. There's nothing wrong with him at all. Oh, but *this* guy?
> His brain deviates so far from the norm in terms of neural damage
> that ... Jesus Christ! They chemically castrated his brain! Either
> that or he ate the brown acid at Woodstock. And it might have
> happened between the ages of 20 through 25.

It's like reading tree rings, least before your brain and mind stop
developing. But even afterwards because your brain will display
characteristic signs of neural decay that will differ from place to
place in your brain. I don't know if that happened to me, but I'm
pretty sure the government has intentionally distributed bad drugs to
me from time to time. Regardless, it is fucking miraculous that my
brain is even able to function, at this point! I stay away from almost
everything except from pot because it's all terrible -- the time
spent, the damage done, the people everything.

### (predicting covert action)

And I'm telling you that that just so everyone knows ... I shouldn't
drop like a dead fly from a overdose any time soon. I've been trying
to think ahead of every possible cover story for my own death to
uhhh... pre-emptively minimize the possibility. And IMO that's what's
been keeping me alive.  Thinking ahead, understanding the
possibilities and understanding that, when a state-run institution
does something like that, they send signals a week or month ahead of
time, so not too many people ask questions when you "overdose" or "get
robbed with cocaine sprinkled on you" or "your what had you." Whatever
that may be. All I do is understand what's possible and watch for
people to say things that establish signals, especially in the minds
of the few people around me, and then I kinda know what to watch out
for. This paranoia has robbed me of what little there might have been
left in my life.

### (Carfentanyl)

- mention my tweets calling this out in Huntington

And all those people dying from carfentanyl?! Some schmuck in their
basement can't just create that stuff. Fentanyl is hard enough, if you
don't want law enforcement beating down your door because they're
pissed a handful of kids OD'd on dope. OK, well now there are people
out there dying from carfentanyl by the hundred. And I can tell you:
that's not normal. It runs counter to the business model and
motivations for drug dealers to stay low. Fentanyl is questionable at
best, but carfentanyl is a murder weapon. You can die breathing it in.

Junkies look out for each other because no one else does. You're the
lowest piece of shit in society because dope drives terrible crime
sprees. So, the second your friend dies of an overdose and your left
holding the bags, you're going to be warning all your friends before
the ambulance gets there. And that leaves behind a characteristic
messaging pattern that should emerge in Huntington and Cincinatti. If
those text messages aren't there for anyone who died, then someone may
have just gotten off of nearly two hundred state-driven murders.

###

Back to neural castration. Just like there are neuro-connectological
profiles specific to phenotypes, there are similar profiles that act
as fingerprints for chemical damage to the brain. And these profiles
my be read from the brains of people who've had mind-altering
transcranial magnetic stimulation. I've seen studies where they are
able to detect the presence of some weak "false memories" by data
mining fMRI responses.

### (warning that these people aren't planning on telling this story)

The major warning here is that these people are out there perpatratin'
and they mostly don't care how these crimes might be viewed by society
in a decade. That could mean a few things. For example, they don't
expect the people they're doing it to to figure it out and ask
questions. Or they don't understand how easily proveable some of these
things are with the technology of the 2020's. Or, my favorite, they
just don't care because it's part of a system-collapse or
civilization-collapse event and ain't nobody gonna know to ask
questions after it happens. A system-collapse would be something like
a worldwide tyrannical revolution, producing a new system where all
the old knowledge has been purged in a single generation and no one is
capable of asking questions because no one knows what happened and
every move they make online is monitored, so that any person asking
the right questions leading to the truth is killed very quickly.

These same people capable of orchestrating this through intelligence
agencies are so threatened by the internet and the freedom of all
information and the discovery of past sins that I fear some looney-bin
scenario like this might actually be possible. In the two years or so,
whenever I try to sound the alarm about things like this or about
other government shenanigans, that's when I feel the most
pressure. Before that, I never felt any pressure. The people I know
today were involved would simply egg me on.

### (i'm a scapegoat)

And now everyone wants to point at me and say "It's his fault! Yeh
fucking Shaggy over there!  The fucking pothead who keeps asking those
meddling questions. We keep taking everything from him and keeps
trying to get people to think! To use their brains!"

Eventually, I figure it out. My life is like an atrocious version of
that Steve Jobs quote. It's something like "All the random things that
happen in life don't make sense looking forward, but once you look
back, you can connect the dots and everything makes sense. Everything
was meaningful." I'm like the Steve Jobs of government fuckery. And
for every person who "made it" as far as I did, there are millions of
others, who either settled or were brainwashed or were driven insane
or had an "accident."

###

I would have cooperated with the government in an
investigation. *THERE ARE NO CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH I EVER SHOULD
HAVE BEEN PSYCHOLOGICALLY TORTURED*. They spent millions on this shit
and I'm not joking.  Considering I've been under a fucking microscope,
I thought I was being fairly cooperative and that contacting a
low-level FBI agent or making digital record of this was one of the
worst things I could do. I thought that, at best, it'd lead to me
getting harmed.  Furthermore, according to memories, which are on par
in reliability with the same memories that seem to have gotten me in
trouble, much of this was part of ... some complicated thing with many
aspects and objectives.

Basically ... well actually I can't really mention much of anything,
but I sure as hell wish that these pissants would piss off and move
on. Because continuing to poke and prod the volatile psychology that
you so meticulously engineered isn't going to make anything better.

# (OPM and its effects)

### Universal Blackmail

And they are blackmailing fucking everyone. Like they're the goddamn
mafia. But here's the deal with distributed and total blackmail
against your citizenry. Fucking everybody is gettin blackmailed!
Again, STAND UP FOR YOUR GODDAMN RIGHTS AND FORGIVE OTHERS OF THEIR
SINS BECAUSE THEY GETTIN BLACKMAILED JUST LIKE YOU ARE IF YOU HAVE
ANY INFLUENCE.

### Yup, They Got All the Bases! Every Single One of Them.

How can these Bolo's do this in the Age of the Internet? Because they
have total control of the communication infrastructure. They have
seized the means of communication. They have domination of telecom.
Any party that exerts control over telecom infrastructure has God-mode
on the internet. **Assume that SSL is broken and thus HTTPS is
broken. [JUST MAKE THAT ASSUMPTION](http://arstechnica.com/security/2016/08/new-attack-steals-private-crypto-keys-by-corrupting-data-in-computer-memory/).**
This attack is pretty bad, but nowhere near some of the others we've
seen in the past few years.

Most sites don't even use SSL anymore. In my experience there are far
more sites who don't use SSL, than there were in 2010. Those sites
that don't are definitely definitely hopelessly broken. Assume that
any message you send on the internet can be blocked silently or
modified persistently.

### All Your Bases Have a Free Splinternet Connection

It is possible to Man-in-the-Middle anything with a customized
application server. Facebook, Twitter, Gmail, anything. They can
selectively divert traffic to these containers to effectively shard
usage and maintain persistently modifications applied to the data for
specific users. If you actually are a targeted individual, the
end-points for internet access will be modified in real time, so they
can limit the application of these kinds of God-mode exploits to only
the terminals you are in front of. These are theoretical exploits by
the way, but they are possible in theory. Far from practical, but they
are possible and it scares the shit out of me.

### Until the Government Gives Me Armed Ground Transport to Canada...

Then I am a refugee because they won't let me leave. Understanding
these exploits amoung other things is part of the reason why they'll
never, ever let me leave the United States. My intelligence is why
they say I'm dangerous, by the way. Not because of my intent, but
because of my intellectual capability with regard to understanding how
to fucking run shit in information warfare. And psychological warfare,
too. And economic warfare. They know it. They know I also know a lot
of other things which aren't really part of the official story.

#

And it turns out: the government regulates intelligence. You have to
have a brain license if your IQ is way to high...

### You Got A License For Them Math Problems, Boy?

Any violations here? Apparently, you get hung as a traitor or some
shit. Or they might claim they exposed you to just enough classified
information to try you in secret court until they figure out how to
kill you or shut you up. And that's interesting because, in my case,
no one ever told me to shut up. Ever! No one has ever directly said
anything to me to direct me to stop doing whatever TF it is that I'm
doing! Well how the hell is a kid with Asperger's supposed to know?!
You practically have to smack him in the face and give him an ice
bucket shower before you explain that:

> No. Do not learn X, Y, and Z. Your IQ is too high and the government
> can't give you a clearance. YOU ARE NOT ALLOWED!

And no one ever explained this either:

> People really don't appreciate the things you've been posting on
> Facebook since 2005. Yeh, the things about the NSA, government
> surveillance and the end of American Republic? Don't do that. You
> can't. You have to stop.

That's all someone had to say. Well, I was taught to value American
rights as though they were sacred. Jesus, how am I supposed to know
that, since 2001, we wiped our ass with the Bill of Rights as part of
an undeclared war on American citizens?

Usually, for nerds who are too smart for their own good, they'll just
strap you in with a real cushy job. You know, the works: big salary,
ping-pong balls and lots of other nerds clackin' away on their
keyboard. And, if you're lucky, you might even find yourself with a
hot wife. After all, you've been bred to be socially awkward, isolated
and to crave sex. So that you're easily controlled, if you're
male. It's also interesting that, as part of our social engineering,
many more men ended up in engineering than technology. Just an
interesting coincidence and nothing more.

### Don't You Know the Status Quo is Fine the Way It Is?

Too many Google queries for intelligence concepts, aspects of
conspiracies that are, as of yet, uncovered or mathematic theorums
that are prerequisites for breaking through the veil? You'll find a
white van is constantly parked outside your house or that you just so
happened to end up living in a van down by the river!

### Your Intelligence, No Matter How Developed Isn't A Unique Commodity

And make no mistake: the government and some powerful people just
don't give a shit about what intelligent people contribute to society
... apparently. In my experience, anyways. Heretofore, this is what
life has shown me. In fact, if you change too much at one time, it
makes it real hard for those people in power to stay in power. And
nobody likes that shit. Fuckin' nerds, with their pocket protectors
and their fucking goofy-ass glasses and awkward prosody. They're
always fucking things up -- those little twerps are "bad for
business!"

You'd think that any one with a high enough IQ knows that, while his
innovation might technically the equivalent of Zero Point Energy for
medicine, genomics, fusion, financial engineering, hacking or whatever
-- that it's bad for the existing business models out there. The
status quo is fine the way it is. We don't need to cure diseases!
What? We milk them. That's a teet! If we change things too fast, we
lose control and other people aren't intelligent enough to anticipate
the change in the resulting system. Yeh, this is really depressing and
I'm clearly the exception, not the rule ... but my life has become one
massive glaring, migrane-inducing exception.

Yes, we cheerlead innovation and change, but that's all for show!
Nobody cares. We want baby steps so the fat kids can keep up with the
pace. The people counting the money would rather keep you in
submission, so they can milk you! And if you break rank one too many
times, one of these rich pricks or government surveillance operators
is going take note and they're going to steal and/or control your
innovations. Why? Because they already have the patents and the
capital and you don't. So you better play by the rules and STICK WITH
THE PACK!

### [Welcome to Murkyatocracy. Population: Nikola Tesla and Alan Turing]()

Jesus, every one of those geeks thinks he's Nikola Tesla. Meritocracy?
HA! Try Murkyatocracy!

Well guess what! Turing "ate an apple laced with cyanide." While he
was alone. Tesla died under mysterious circumstances in 1943 and had
all of his property, intellectual and otherwise, confiscated by the
[Office of Alien Property Custodian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_of_Alien_Property_Custodian).

### Tesla's Property Was Seized By the OACP as a Traiter After His Death

An agency that, bizarrely, I have never heard of. I have scoured
Wikipedia since 2005 and never heard of it, amoung other recent trends
and diseases. OACP confiscates any and all property during wartime
from the enemy's cold dead rigor mortis grip. Yes, apparently Nikola
Tesla was an enemy of the state! Weird. I had never heard that. A
citizen for about 50 years, but an enemy. However, it was during WW2
and it does seem he was encoding his work in a way that only he would
understand. But ... seized for being a WW2 traitor? Turing was under
surveillance after WW2 for sympathizing with or spying for the
Soviets.

> See? Ain't not nobody's allowed to be smart no more! Nah, you need
> the blessing of the state! Don't be on them Quantum Information
> Theory vidyas now, ya hear? No sir, none of that Bioinformatics for
> you. Just don't think about it! And whatever you do, do not fucking
> solve an "unsolved" math problem. *YOU WOULD NOT BELIEVE WHAT WILL
> HAPPEN IF YOU EVEN GET CLOSE!* Just be a good boy and get a job
> at McDonalds. That brain's dangerous if it's loaded you know? Put
> the goddamn safety on and get that job at Best Buy. The Geek Squad
> needs people like you!!

^^^ Said no loving mother to her child, ever.

### OACP Was Somehow Involved in Anna Nicole Smith's USSC Cases

Apparently, OACP was involved in the
[Anna Nicole Smith](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_v._Marshall)
Supreme Court
[cases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stern_v._Marshall). Yes, both of
them. There were two, in 2006 and 2011. And those bastards snatched up
all of her estate after she died from cardiac arrest.

### The Same OACP That Dismantled I.G. Farben and Other Nazi Corporations

OACP, the very same agency I've never heard of, was also involved in
seizing & redistributing the intellectual property & assets from the
Nazi's after WW2. Did America ever say "Thank You,
Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei"? Nope. They just took
all of that, like Wernher von Braun's rocket tech, and acted like they
did it themselves. Then they stuck all the rest of the Nazi's in "Area
51" wherever that is.

### After WW2 America Consumed the Nazi's in Anticipation of the Soviet Menace

For the Nazi's who posed a threat, the OSS determined they had all
information of value and killed them, probably orphaning any children
they may have had. Anyone who had value as an asset who could not be
killed without significantly threatening intelligence to aid America
in the assured conflict with Soviet Russia? They were weighed down
with so much blackmail and counterforce, we could be sure they'd never
do shit. And, we could count on it too, because at that point, we knew
we all hated Stalin as much as Hitler did. And nobody wanted to let
that grubby, drunk psychopathic bastard bury another body in Western
Europe.

Then America acted like nothing happened, while they beat the Soviets
over the head in the Cold War. And then they told America we were
lucky we didn't speak German. Because we had something. We had
acquired a lot of valuable assets and tech actually. Because if the
Germans were going to fold to either side, it'd be Western Europe. And
it seemed that Soviet Russia had no idea we had it. So we sure as shit
weren't gonna waste it, whatever it was.

###

The end of WW2 is very interesting, to say the least. I'm not
apologizing for the Nazi's. I'm just saying: if the Soviets acquired
access to everything like we did, we would have quickly lost the Cold
War. Stalin would've just kept on pushin' on, like he always set out
to do well before Hitler broke the
[Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molotov%E2%80%93Ribbentrop_Pact).

If Germany had been complacent, just to let the Soviets conquer and
absorb their country, its assets and its intellectual property, then
WW2 would have represented the annhilation democracy and freedom in
Europe. And very likely the world. Stalin would have gained a ton of
momentum with that move and everything would have been tipped in their
favor, while Germany still reeled from defeat in WW1 and sanctions
from the Treaty of Versaille. They had to pay back all that war debt!
For both sides! Whoa. Hitler was like "Just sit here, broke as hell,
with nothing to do but stand in line for soup and just let Stalin
scoop us up? Fuck that!" And ... well.. then terrible things happened.

# Who turned OACP On Again?!

OK, so if the OACP is being used and it's an agency that's turned on
during wartime, that means that someone turned it on again. Who did
that? Who fucking turned that thing on again and why doesn't America
know about it? The only other times it has been turned on is to
redistributed assets at the end of WW1 and WW2, so ... if it was used
in the "Anna Nicole Smith" court cases, why was it turned on? And
WTF?! Why would she have assets that couldn't be redistributed the way
the mafia normally redistributes them?! By force! Really? I mean
... really?!!

So... I guess we're at world war or something? News to me. I knew that
we I knew that we declared War on Terror in 2001, but I also realized
we declared War on Drugs in 1971. Before 2010, we were at war with
Iraq and Afganistan.
.

Actually, now that I look, it seems
that [OFAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Featured_content) has
the authority in the War on Terror.

- SDN's and I-9 notifications to track individuals across the country
  - coverage

- intellectual property theft via surveillance
  - if coordinated for political reasons could be incredibly powerful,
    esp in today's economy
  - basically the main driver for economics over the next decade is
    technology and thus, intellectual property
  - so if someone hijacked homeland security to steal this from "the
    other side" they could use it to secure an insurmountable position
    in the economy of tomorrow.
- i believe this happened to me, to some degree. I'm not sure how or
  who did it, but i do know that I've been under minor surveillance
  since
  2010. Early on, it was mostly indirect HUMINT and some SIGINT.
  - i think they were worried that, because of how I used technology,
    that since it was harder to surveil me, i deserved more attention.
  - for example, i have always refused to use Dropbox and maintain any
    connection to cloud storage on my laptops or mobile devices.
    - why? one reason is that if you're computer is authorized to
      write to cloud storage, it can become trivial to exfiltrate data
      from your computer
  - i think my statements on social media and IRL led them to believe
    I was a problem moreso than a threat. in fact, most of the people
    speaking out always knew what was coming. many of these people
    intentionally maintained a low profile and knew what to avoid
    saying.  They resisted DHS/FBI Minority Report radicalization
    operations, which were fairly rampant from 2008-2012. The FBI
    would identify someone and, via HUMINT, would seek to see if that
    person could be pushed to terrorist acts. Quickly thereafter, the
    incident would be paraded around as a victory against
    terrorism. It really makes you wonder because ...  why do that if
    there are real victories to be paraded around with terrorism. This
    practice could be justified in some ways, but is a really sketchy
    precedent to set.
- anyways, I always treated technology as though it was inherently
  insecure at all times. After 2011, if I had anything significantly
  profitable, i would write it down in analog on pencil and paper.
  - however, i really never expected to be robbed blind of profit and
    credit
  - while being subjected to psychological torture just to be held up
    as a scapegoat
  - that's insane. I would never have expected that to happen in
    america, but it did
  - and the degree to which the people around me act towards me?
    - it scares the fuck out of me.
  - people i know are scared. i can see the concern and fear in their
    eyes, but thy are afraid of getting marked themselves.
    - they approach out of concern, but are timid and afraid and do
      not want extended connection, especially in public.
  - and you're telling me the government can do all this,
    - but they can't even fix what happened? why? because they're
      afraid of getting caught red-handed? If this is provably
      happening to one of your most patriotic citizens ... wouldn't
      you try to stop it? Or correct it?
    - if someone wins a court case for bullying in school or sexual
      harassment, don't people usually seek to intervene? afterwards,
      depending on the severity and the certainty, don't people
      usually step in to help?

{% highlight "ruby" %}
//
//          ROFL:ROFL:LOL:ROFL:ROFL
//              _______||_________
//   L         /               [ O\
//  LOL========                |_|_\
//   L     B|O M B                  )
//        F    |____,-------¬______/
//       T //    }-OMGROCKET))
//      W // _______||_||_________/_/
//
{% endhighlight %}
