---
title: "Questions On Gravity"
categories: blog
tags: "science physics astronomy"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
---

Ars Technica recently posted an article on
[an exciting new development in dark matter](http://arstechnica.com/science/2016/02/spotting-dark-matter-by-the-way-it-moves/)
and this piqued my interest on the subject. Another article I just saw
on
[Gizmodo teases a Nobel-worthy revelation on gravity waves](http://gizmodo.com/rumor-mill-heats-up-again-for-discovery-of-gravitationa-1757513741). I've
had a lot of questions about dark matter and gravity that my current
understanding of physics can't answer. Again, yet another subject
where my understanding of math limits me.

### TL;DR; Gravity is Wierd

As far as I can see, understanding gravity necessitates a shift in how
we model space.  I've used a few thought experiments to help simplify
the important pieces.  Here's a few of the more profound questions:

#### Is there a distinction between gravity and the space it curves?

Or is gravity literally the ripple in space? That would imply space is
simpler than it seems. That's a bummer.

#### Does gravity cause the path of gravitation itself to curve?

This makes sense. If gravitons exist, they should follow similar rules
as photons, right? It'd be weird if most bosons, like photons,
followed the curvature of spacetime, but others didn't at all.  It'd
make sense if each boson interacted in it's own way with the curved
nature of spacetime, yet still adhered to the same features of local
space.

And it'd just be weird to have a set of bosons, that interacts via a
completely different kind of space.  Your model would have to account
for multiple models of space: one relativistic and another, who knows.
It's a lot simpler if all the bosons are in the same space.

In other words, what I'm trying to ask is:

#### If gravitons follow curved spacetime, how does this affect other bosons?

And this is the question I got stuck on tonight: If a gravity wave is
moving in the exact same direction as several parallel beams of
photons, how are they affected?

#### If gravitons alter the spacetime that other bosons operate on ...

Then how do you even resolve that dependency graph? One would need
to take precedence over another ... or something. In other words,
if none of the bosons alter spacetime, then one can assume that
spacetime is fairly consistent, except for the exception of matter
that moves, but that's really not that hard to resolve.

All the particles operate on the same space.  If the space changes,
all particles, for the most part, react accordingly and at the same
time.  There are some exceptions maybe with the propagation of
gravity.  Here you can't really have quantum gravity.

However, if gravitons alter the spacetime that these other bosons are
using, how does one deal with that dependency graph that arises?  If
you view bosons as units in streams of information that modify states
of other particles, then what stream of information do gravitons
make up?  Do they comprise a stream to the surrounding space? How so?
Would that mean space itself is composed of particles too?  Would it
stream information all those spatial particles simultaneously?  That
gets complicated.

TODO: reword and or split this question up




#### How do scalar bosons, like the Higgs, differ from Gauge bosons?

I don't really know enough to elaborate on this.


Similar to how the path of light curves?  Actually this makes sense.
- Restated: If gravitons exist, would they

#### If energy is mass, does gravitational energy interact with space or mass in transit?

If gravity travels at the speed of light and force is mass, and if all
matter exhibits gravitational force on all other matter, then what
happens to the gravitational energy between two massive objects moving
away from each other, whose gravitational energy takes significant
time to reach the other object?

Would space curve for the objects in between, because of the
gravitational energy in transit?  If this gravitation energy does
cause space to curve while it's in transit, does the source of the
gravity affect how space curves? Or is the force expressed on space
simply an aggregate of all the forces being transferred through that
space?

Even with the limits of relativity, one can imagine situations where
the gravitational force expressed on two objects could never reach the
other side, AFAIK.  E.G. if large two objects, both traveling toward
each other at half the speed of light, relative to a nearby observer,
then miss each other and continue to travel at nearly half the speed
of light in opposite directions, it could take nearly an eternity
for the force of gravity to exert influence on the other object.

#### How do we preserve conservation of energy with quantum gravity?

So, it's clear that quantum gravity has some complex issues to
resolve.  Otherwise, there are loopholes under which the conservation
of energy would be violated.  This may be an indication that gravity
operates via a non-local mechanism.  Or, in other words, we need more
dimensions to explain it mathematically.  We can be fairly sure that
the force that gravity exhibits travels at the speed of light over
space, but does that mean all of the mechanisms of gravity operate
over our 3-space?

#### What is the nature of these other dimensions?

So if gravity operates via mechanisms in other dimensions, how does
the speed of light apply there?  Is there some similar limit?  What is
the structure and nature of these dimensions and why do they not seem
to affect existing observations?  Have we not noticed them before
because the other 3 forces do not interact with these dimensions?  Is
this a kind of compartmentalization that's required to prevent quantum
gravity from creating dependency issues?  By this, I mean it may be
mathematically simpler if gravity operates on a different space than
the space it manipulates.

### Nobel Worthy Gravity Waves

The Gizmodo article mentions a possible Nobel-worthy discovery of
gravity waves.  Apparently a binary blackhole merger has been
discovered, which is one of the few events that would produce gravity
waves detectable by current means.



mention:

- thought experiment: 2 massive objects moving away from each other
  - really need to create some pics for this kind of stuff

ideas:

- viewing astrophysical observations in the universe as streams of information
  - that is imagine not just the star as a "star," instead imagine it as a stream of photons
  - and likewise for gravity: imagine it as a stream of information from another object with mass
    - this information only has an effect once it reaches the other side

- what are the implications for technology once relativistic effects are overcome?


assuming the path of a gamma ray burst was not altered by the gravity wave, which it almost certainly would, then both would not reach us with the same time interval they started with.

- would high levels of gravity cause the path of gravitation itself to curve, similar to how the path of light curves?

- article on dark matter, gravity and relativity
  - specifically, is the speed of light truly constant for all conditions
    - light is composed of particle waves flowing through space
      - if space curves, light appears to curve, but the flow of light doesn't affect the medium
        - for the most part, the mass of energy flowing through space as photons
          - doesn't affect the structure of space.
      - however, if light is flowing in sync with a gravity wave,
        - the gravity wave [supposedly] flows at the speed of light
          - but distorts the structure of spacetime itself as it propagates
        - therefore it would alter the apparent speed of light flowing in the same direction
        - possibly(??) causing that light to *appear* to travel
          - at slightly less/slightly more than c
   - if this is true, or if something similar is true, and c is not universally constant
     - but instead c varies from apparent c, dependent on the structure of space,
     - then what is c, really?
     - and how does this affect other laws of physics?
       - which are dependent on c? are they actually dependent on local/apparent c?
     - and how does this affect the conclusions we've reached using statistic modeling of the cosmos?
   - it's probably not tru to begin with (i don't knwo all the mathematic complexities)
     - however, it's interesting to thing that something so fundamental as the constant nature of c
       - may not be so constant
     - and it's an interesting thought experiment to examine the dependencies of theories in physics
       - if X, changes how does that affect theories based on X?  etc..



### Dark Matter's Incoherent Doppler Shift

The Ars Technica article discusses unexpected low-energy gamma rays,
whose sources can't be determined.  It is suspected that extremely
rare interactions with dark matter are triggering these gamma ray
bursts.

The article mentions an interesting inverse correlation in
the doppler shift in dark matter suspected gamma ray bursts (GRB) in
relation to the observed doppler shift from other sources of matter.
Perhaps not an inverse correlation per se, but a lack of coherence
with the doppler shift normally exhibited by normal matter we observe.
Most matter in our galaxy is spiraling inwards towards the center and
moving, on average, at specific speeds in relation to us.  Because of
the difference in speed, we observe the doppler shift and because the
motion of all matter in our galaxy is more or less synchronously
spiraling inwards, we observe a predictable, smooth doppler pattern
for normal matter.

Yet, dark matter doesn't interact with matter, except through gravity.
The only reason we suspect it exists is because our observations don't
match our cosmological models.  They mostly match; that is, on a micro
scale, our models for gravity seem to work.  But on the cosmic scale,
there seems to be an enormous amount of missing mass out there than we
can't account for.  Personally, I'm not so convinced this exists at
all, instead feeling that there's something subtly wrong with our
models.

This research looked into the doppler shift of the GRB's, which is
around 3.5 KeV, whereas normal light signal is between 1.5eV and
3.5eV.  Because of the speed difference between the sun and dark
matter, measuring the doppler shift requires sensing very low energy
differences.  But new satellites will be launched with gear that
should be capable of doing this.

This research is significant because we may have observed direct
evidence of dark matter that lines up with our
expectations. Hopefully, the frequency of the GRB's we see are
spatially coherent with the distortion that our models predict for
dark matter's effect on mass in each area of our galaxy.

Basically, dark matter's average motion is distinct from the average
motion of the galaxy and this is what allows us to distinguish the
doppler shift data.  GRB's shift towards blue when we would expect
normal matter to shift red, which means it's moving away from the
majority of matter (that we're moving.

### My Thoughts on Dark Matter

My own uneducated thoughts: I get the feeling that there's something
subtly off with our model of the universe. We see that there's some
general variance that's spatially distributed with the observations
that accompany our data. That is, our observations work in smaller
systems, but on a larger scale, there's this huge disparity in the
motion we see in galaxies and clusters.  We suspect that dark matter
causes galaxies to cluster and even to form in the first place, but
simply because we can't explain it otherwise.

But the stars in nearby galaxies?  They seem to cohere to our model's
predictions, at their interactions with local stars do.  IMO, there's
something missing from our model of gravity or our understanding of
the structure of space.

  - giant plasma tv thought experiment (see snippet)
    - .... or maybe not .. the point here was to create streams of photons generated from the same location

snipped from gizmodo

i’m not a physicist, but the nature of gravity waves is different than quantum waves in that gravity affects the medium through which it propagates. so if that’s true, then how could the trajectory and velocity of a gamma ray burst not be altered? unless there’s some weird balance between the energy dispersed by a gravity wave on the objects around it and the trajectory/momentum of those objects.

assuming they’re both moving in the same direction at the same speed, different phenomena could arise, based on their relative positions. a different result would occur if the gamma ray burst were well in front of the wave, on its crest, on its trough or well behind it.

thought experiment: focus on a star just on the edge of the sun. like the original experiment proving relativity. if the suns gravity were to increase quickly, the trajectory of the light from that star would change. it would appear slightly further away from the sun.

now consider 3 equidistant parallel light rays emerging orthogonally from a large-bodied object like the sun. r0 is the center ray, r1 and r2 are the outer, equidistant rays. now increase gravity at the source. assuming symmetry, those same parallel rays should bend inwards intersect at a point far away from the star, but at different times since they travelled different distances. ray r0 should be further outward than r1 & r2, since it had a straight path. r1 & r2 will intersect the path of r0 at the same time, since everything is symmetric.

p0: the origin of ray r0. p1: the intersection point on r0 of rays r1 and r2. p2: the position of a photon on ray r0 when r1 and r2 intersect.

this is getting more complicated than i intended. it really helps to visualize these light rays as paths, instead of traveling photons. now increase gravity again and p1 is closer to the star. the proportion of p2/p0 to p1/p0 has increase. decrease gravity and that proportion decreases

if you then visualize an idealized gravity wave propagating along with these rays, it would cause p1 to be closer, then farther from the star as it increased/decreased gravity. assuming the gravity wave and photons are traveling at c, the speed of light, then a gravity wave likely won’t both increase & decrease gravity for a single photon, unless that photon’s path is significantly curved by the wave in relation to the direction of the gravity wave. it’s tricky because gravity and light move at c and so any effect is minute.

i’m rambling at this point, but i think this is a useful thought experiment for understanding how gravity affects space, even though it’s a bit idealized. yet, after thinking about this, it just seems that gravity waves would break some kind of invariance in relativity, or at least my understanding of it. for a gamma ray burst with all photons moving parallel with a gravity wave, wouldn’t the distribution of photons in that beam show a doppler shift? they definitely would, if the photons were not all moving parallel with the gravity wave. what i mean by a break in invariance is it’s odd that just because a photon is moving exactly in line with a gravity wave, it wouldn’t exhibit any effect at all on it.
