---
title: "Facets of Greatness"
categories: "blog"
tags: "business psychology philosophy"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
---

What makes a person like Elon Musk or Steve Jobs such a great person?
What qualities, behaviors, experience and knowledge contribute most to
building their character, realizing their dreams and pushing them
forward, in spite of hardship?  What attributes contribute to the
development of these qualities and behaviors? Why are these attributes
important?

What kinds of knowledge help us form and realize a vision? What
knowledge catalyzes the development of such a vision?  What inspires
others to work with us?

> Stay Hungry.
>
> Stay Foolish.

!["Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish." - Steve Jobs](/img/posts/2016-01-03-facets-of-greatness/steve-jobs-stay-hungry-stay-foolish.jpg)

explain the facets of greatness as me trying to explain a concept
- which involves characteristics that can't really be explained.
- and the facets are like the faces of this abstract thing that can be explained.
- mostly stretching the metaphor in the title though
- everything is like this to some degree
- but i hope that by explaining these facets, that it's easier for others
- to relate to

[ explain the list ]

--------


direction and instead I felt a hole that needed to be filled.  I was
forced to search hard for meaning in life, but there was nothing
there, nothing real anyways.  If you are fortunate enough to find some
compelling meaning, you are incredibly lucky.  I eventually found that
I needed to create my own meaning in life.

So this series is a reflection on what I've learned. I didn't have
much of a clearly stated system given to me by my parents.  I had to
create my own, which is by no means complete.

## The Facets of Greatness

In this series, I'm trying to explain concepts that involve
characteristics which cannot really be explained at all. They are much
deeper than that.  And so, these facets are like the faces on the
surface of this abstract, ineffable thing. [elaborate]

I really hope that by explaining these facets, I make it easier for
others to relate to the intangible truth to becoming great which so
often eludes the majority of us.  Most give up on pursuing this path
before we know it exists and by the time we see it, it's too
late. You'll find in life that there are many people out there with
advice for you, but truly, their advice is meant to make you useful to
them, while providing enough value to seem authentic.

Instead, I hope to arm you with most of the knowledge and advice that
I would give myself.  A good rule of thumb for ethical action in any
case and especially when giving advice to someone is the golden rule:
treat your neighbor as you'd treat yourself.  Or, more radically:

> Treat everyone else as though they literally are you. As though we
> are all one. That, by harming another, you are harming yourself.

![Treat Yo'self!]

And the Golden Rule's corollary of course: treat yourself as you'd
like others to treat you.  I've said it time and time again.

> Your confidence is your most valuable asset and you better know that
> people will try to steal that too.

By assaulting your confidence, you'll find that negative people not
only boost theirs, but they do so at your expense, by subjugating you
through demoralization.  You've been warned!


==========

### Quantification

Great people quantify and measure everything.  Without quantification,
you cannot develop a system or hope to improve.  The most difficult or
seemingly ineffable is usually the most valuable to form a system for
quantification.  Since it's difficult, it confers advantage when you
can measure and predict that which mystifies others. It's especially
crucial to learn how to measure your usage of time, as well as those
around you.  You also need to learn to quantify information,
knowledge, communication and social networking -- both online and IRL.

### Communication

These great leaders are all conductors in the symphony of
communication.  They identify the most efficient means to relay
messages, so that they can interfaces with a tree of people in their
own organization as well as with people in others.  Everyone has
twenty-four hours in a day.  The best leaders network with power
players who command their own subtree of the organization and, by
doing so, harness the sum of man-hours available to their network for
maximum efficiency.

### Signaling

Everything around you is part of a myriad of systems, composed of
countless feedback loops.  Signaling concerns becoming aware of how
your organization's words and actions will implicitly and explicitly
affect those feedback loops.  Signaling is a kind of indirect
communication, but it is communication.

### Knowledge

- knowledge drives how you see a system compared to how others see the
  same system.  the difference between your model and that of others
  determines your belief that there is opportunity where others see
  only risk.  this can also help you determine how to mitigate risk.
- need a better, more descriptive summary here.

### Vision

### Story

### Identity

### Orchestration

### The System


--------

## Part Two

### Quantification

Perhaps one facet is more important than others.  It's hard to say and
while describing each facet, it seems that one is the crux.

they try to systematically and reproducibly measure everything they
can.
- the leaders of enterprise throughout history, but especially in the
  past century,
  - have excelled because they quantified things that others couldn't.
- in other words, where others may have data they collect and things
  they measure,
  - great people will identify what others haven't thought to measure
    - and create methodologies for quantifying what others have
      thought impossible to measure.

Standard Oil built an empire in the 19th century because they had a
better understanding of their market than their competitors. This is
what allowed them to grow into the dominant position they assumed at
the turn of the 20th century, regardless of how you feel about their
monopolistic tendancies.  That's off topic and I don't want it to
detract from my point: when there was an opportunity for a company
like Standard Oil to be created, they were able to make business
decisions based on the disparity of information and knowledge
available to them and their competitors.


Standard Oil had better information, thus they had better knowledge
and understanding about their market.  How did they acquire that
information?  Through communication and by understanding the data that
was important to collect and the information that was important to
process.  This is mostly opinion, as I don't actually know the
specifics of Standard Oil.  But how would they arrive at such an
understanding of the nature of competition in the late 19th century?
By measuring aspects of the 19th century oil market at that time that
their competitors didn't assess.  If they weren't collecting the right
data, they wouldn't have understood there was an opportunity there.
Or that the conditions of the oil market at that time would inevitably
lead to coalescence.

[examples of unexpected things to measure]
- geographic destribution of their competitors' customers
- market share of their competitors
- oil price trends
- range of viable oil prices for their competitors to offer
- cost of production and transportation for their product vs
  competitors

if you can't measure something, how can you say you know it?
knowledge is power, but if you can't quantify something -- a process,
a quality, etc. -- then how can you reliably reproduce it?  strategy
is useless if you don't know what the pieces are, how the fit together
or whether some piece of your strategy can be reliably executed when
you need it.

also important to quantify statistic variance and risk

...

this is especially important in an information economy.  relevant
information is based on quantifyable data and is processed to produce
knowledge.  if you can't quantify something or if you have collected
the wrong data, this can skew your organizations understanding ....

how can you say you improve year over year, if you don't measure the right aspects of your business?

how can you say that your product is revolutionary, if you can't provide numbers that show how revolutionary it is?

lead into communication:
- communication is a great example of something that seems difficult to measure

## Communication

- Efficient b-tree structures

Communication is both the receipt and transmission of information.
It's a great example of something that seems difficult to measure and
to quantify.  Unless you're familiar with the math that drives
companies like Google, then communication is going to seem like a
liberal art.  But great people learn how to systemize everything.
It's difficult to truly excel at something without systemizing it.
And they excel at both parsing the nuggets of gold from information
received, as well as crafting their content to convey the intended
message.

Crafting the right message your business, brand or project requires
skill and experience.  It's a tough optimization problem.  The best
take great pains to craft a minimal message.  By minimalizing the
content, the message and its concepts are pure, simple, easily
understood and easily recalled.  You can tell just by looking at
Apple's advertisements, their user manuals, their developer
documentation, their tech support dialogues -- these guys have gone
through great pains to craft their message for simplicity and to
promote their brand's identity.  I can just tell, that Apple as a
company, from the top down, is structured differently, just by
observing the uniform style and goals of nearly 100% of their
communication.

Returning to the 19th century economy, it amazes me to think back to
previous centuries before the internet and phone systems.  I find
myself pondering what it would be like to remain a step ahead of your
competition at that time.  If you owned a furniture store, you would
spend an exorbitant amount of time checking prices and quality of
products from wholesalers and manufacturers.  You would build a
network of local manufacturers and spend time cultivating those
relationships.

How much of your time would you spend doing that?  How would you stay
ahead of your competitors?  What systems & processes would you enact
to ensure you were capable of collecting the best information on
furniture?  How would you determine what is worth manufacturing
locally and what is more profitable elsewhere?  How would you stay in
contact with previous colleagues?

It seems that before the advent of instantaneous communication that
business -- and especially retail, manufacture and distribution -- was
all in who you knew and how you could leverage your social network in
order to maximize its benefits.  This was a time when doing so would
be costly in terms of time and energy.  Because of the increased
difficulty, the ability to do so would be very profitable.  Thus, in
previous centuries, efficiently receiving information was a critical
factor in determining success for those fortunate enough to own
businesses in that time.

However, as the internet dominates information distribution and makes
it available to everyone, being privy to information and knowledge is
no longer the difficulty.  It is sifting through the firehose of data.
Now the informational advantage is available to those who can process
the data. Whereas acquiring information used to be the barrier to
overcome that signified opportunity, now it is the capacity for
sifting through the data to find the valuable nuggets.

- paid access to distribute information to people in a targeted manner
  - a.k.a. advertising in general

The prevalence of social media represents ennumerable opportunities to
network with customers, to learn from them, to understand how they
think about your products and to observe the kinds of experiences your
products create.  But social media also presents itself as a huge
vulnerability to business strategy.  If you're not watching your
message, you could be revealing a lot of information abou that
business strategy.  You could be projecting the wrong message and
associations for your brand, confusing your customer's perception of
brand identity or unintentionally diluting your brand's value.
Branding is one of the most crucial aspects to tech products.

Moving back towards the facets of great people, I enjoy watching
interviews of founders or other great leaders today.  I like watching
new and unknown founders who might not have as much experience, but I
like to do so because I see myself in their shoes.  These guys are
green.  They haven't had the PR training.  What mistakes do they make?
What do they consciously and unconsciously focus on presenting to the
audience and why?  What do they think is important about their product
or their message?  How do they react to pressure when they're on
stage?

When watching interviews of people like Steve Jobs or Elon Musk or a
ton of other influential people, it's important to pay attention to
more than just the message they want to convey.  There's a sea of
information you can glean from these videos.  You get to see how they
react with people of various stature, including those who might be
almost unknown.  Even when an audience member asks a dumb question, or
a leading question, you can learn how they respond to different
situations and a little bit about why.

> Ooohhh, yeh, you might want to watch your answer on that one, just
> sidestep and keep moving.

You'll notice that these people are smart and quick, yet usually
passive, when someone does something like asking a leading question.
They usually just don't attach to it, and I'll elaborate on that in a
later section.  Observing how someone responds to problems is vital to
measuring their character.

If you know about the long term goals and mission of this person's
organization, looking at how they posture themselves and their
organization can speak volumes about those goals.  How do they say
they say?  What are their motivations behind the structure of their
message?  How are current events and market conditions affecting their
message today as compared to the past?  What are the obvious points
they could be making, but haven't mentioned and why?  Do how they stay
on message or circle back from a risky area?  Does it seem like the
interviewer or this person veered off track and why?  What was the
outcome of seemingly off the cuff statements and questions?  Good?
Bad?

It's important to note that many, if not most, inferences you make
that aren't grounded in fact might be based in misinterpretation of
words & actions. So properly weighting the inferences you draw is key.

It's crucial and difficult to understand how audience members are
going to perceive your words and actions.  This varies from area to
area.  Politics can be volatile and people will latch onto anything.
Business, not so much, but it can be unpredictable.  But, it's
definitely worth it to have someone else help you construct your
message here and to help you craft together content for a media
appearance.

So I also like to think about the process behind an interview or media
appearance.  How did they identify the questions being asked?  What
was the process to set up the interview?  What's the message they're
obstensibly trying to convey?  Why did they agree to this appearance?
What are both parties getting out of it?

If they have someone managing PR, how did they work to posture content
for the organization and/or it's projects for this interview?  What
would motivate them to do so?  How long ago does it seem like they
structured their content and message?  Have current events affected
their PR posturing in the week(s) leading up to the interview?  For
politicians running for election, did some article or video clip set
the tone?  How was their PR and team involved in responding to this?
Are they responding to the elephant in the room?  Is that typically
how they handle situations like that and why?

But, again and perhaps most important, when they veered off track, why
did that happen?  This might be where you pick up the most information
that wasn't intentionally conveyed.

While it's critical to convey a simple message, for many
organizations, this can render elements of your business strategy more
predictable than you'd like.  In contrast, your organization needs to
keep people guessing.  The idea here is at least two-fold.  First,
people are excited with new information and this keeps your fans and
customers focused on you.  And secondly, extraneous information makes
it much harder for a competitor to completely discern elements of your
strategy.  So, if you only stick to what seems relevant, then it
becomes easier for your opponents to predict your intentions,
strategy, opportunities and other facets of your organization's
behavior.

These tactics contrast with the goal of keeping communications simple
and minimal. At best, these tactics allow your organization to remain
agile and retain surprise.  Yet, the wrong idea could backfire, if not
properly assessed or executed.  Using tactics to avoid predictability
requires that you have an intimate understanding of how your message
is perceived by various categories of customers and how it could be
perceived.

## Signaling

Communication is signaling and vice versa, but signaling is more
indirect.  To me, signaling encompasses incidental communication of
your organizations intentions through purchasing agreements, real
estate purchases, intellectual property registration and startup
acquisitions.  It never ceases to amaze me the lengths that companies
will go through to cover their tracks, sometimes.  Then there are
other instances where a major company is obviously signaling towards a
major investment of their resources and I wonder why they wanted to
make that knowledge public. I wish I could be a part of those
discussions because I'm sure they have good reasons.

=============

The best example of signaling I can think of is the great lengths that
the US and UK undertook to surprise Germany with the invasion location
for DDay.  There were two major possibilities for DDay invasion.  The
UK conspired to have a cadaver available before the invasion and send
it floating to shore at the alternate location.  This was a day or so
before the invasion in Normandy.  This signaled to Hitler that Germany
should concentrate its forces in preparation of invasion there and
ordered much of their land forces away from Normandy.  If it weren't
for this tactical use of signaling, the UK and US would have suffered
massively larger losses in DDay.  The story is even more fascinating
when you hear all the details.  Definitely worth it.

This story underscores the importance of understanding how your
actions affect the behavior of others.  Any great strategy must take
signaling into account.  Quite often, taking signaling into account
sometimes significantly obfuscates an otherwise simple strategy.  If
you're trying to throw off your opponent in chess, this could result
in a several move delay before you position the piece you actually
wanted.  In order for it to be useful, you need to understand how your
opponent plays the game, whether they understand a particular strategy
and how they might react to such a strategy.

In business, purchasing a company or real estate could signal your
intentions to your competitors.  Furthermore, prices of stocks and
commodities can signal the reactions of entities in a particular
industry.  If you know that industry and you understand the decision
making process for the players in that game, you can understand how
actions which weren't initiated by one of those players could indicate
changes in their behavior.

As for founders and great leaders, they seem to prefer to not signal
at all -- which would be boring in my opinion.  For founders of
companies, it's smart to generally turn down the volume on your
emotional reactions.  For people in other industries, the opposite
could be true -- 24/7 poker face is a bad thing.  For many people,
it's just personality.

In general, I've noticed that founders and other greats tend to dull
their emotional response during long form interviews.  They don't want
to signal anything at all.  This could be because of the risk of
sending the wrong message.  Confusion can be more difficult to quell
than it is useful, especially if you want to convey a uniform message.
For some roles and industries, it seems more important to remain
reserved, though not withdrawn. Higher volume emotional responses
could detract from the important pieces of your message, if it's an
intellectual one. Some people will latch onto anything you give them
that they can contort to attack you.  Sometimes it's better not to
give anyone anything at all.

If you're someone who has a considerable amount of influence, you
really have to watch your words and actions because you can create
more of an effect than you expect.  This is especially true if other
people want to use your words and actions for their own purposes or
without your knowledge.

![picasso's manus]

Founders need to prevent people from resolving and deducing more
information based on their reactions, especially if they're involved
in a competitive space.  Additionally, when a founder has established
business partnerships, unintentionally signalling the wrong thing can
adversely affect your partners. Someone could prompt you with a
seemingly harmless question and a founder needs to know how to
respond, while taking into account their own interests and the
interests of their partners.  They need to take these factors into
account a priori and know what questions could be asked.  Situations
like this, even when someone didn't intend harm with their reaction
could cause significant problems for other people or partners.

Keeping business partnerships in mind when talking about signaling
from a organizational perspective is more complicated.  Agreements
with business partners may require that you coordinate signalling in a
market -- though the text of such an agreement wouldn't call it that.
This could be unethical, depending on how it's used and how you
coordinate.

Businesses may pursue strategies employed *solely* to see how a
competitor reacts to better understand how signaling affects their
competitor's behavior.  From this, they can make inferences about
their competitor's strategy.  While I specifically mentioned *solely*,
this isn't true -- no strategy is employed for a single explicit
purpose in business.

Great people with no small plans have a clear distinction b/w what
info can be shared and what should remain private. The understand what
inferences can be made with each new piece of info.  This is
incredibly important because any great project requires great plans.
Everyone, or almost everyone, would love to build something great.  So
have you to conceal your intentions, your strategies and your
motivations.  Because, at best, someone else will end up building what
you had planned.  Or a competitor will sidestep and adapt to your
strategy, rendering it useless.  Or just a massive waste of time.

This is why signaling is so important.  The kind of people who end up
being truly great understand signaling.  The understand how to read
the actions of others and what message to send.  They know what
questions to ask and what not to ask and the implications of making
particular statements.  They understand motivations behind their own
actions and their colleagues actions.

They also understand how important it is to acquire information, even
though directly asking the question would signal elements of their own
strategy to their opponents.  So they know how to work through other
people to acquire information, so that competitors aren't tipped off
by the desire to obtain particular information.  That is, they
understand how to destructure and restructure the acquisition of
knowledge to satisfy appearances and other rules of the game.  They
also know how to destructure and restructure the steps of someone's
plan of action or business strategy, as well as their own.  Or of
someone's actions within their own organization.

They also understand that this kind of destructuring and restructuring
is very expensive, in terms of time and energy, but that it is
invaluable to security and risk mitigation.  They understand this and
are capable of acquiring the resources required to be capable of this
kind of orchestration.

## Knowledge

These people value knowledge and systemize it's acquisition.  They're
intimately aware of what they don't know.  They understand how to
apply knowledge for gain.  They have the wisdom to deftly perform when
they don't have the knowledge.

They construct strategies based on what they learn.  Then they
enumerate the factors and dependencies of the factors in that
strategy.  They understand that in some industries or trades, there
are factors that are critical and there are factors that seem
critical, but fall away over time.

Most people believe that particular indicators and statistics drive
markets, prices, etc.  Usually the commonly understood model of
something is mostly true, but it's a facade that hides the deeper,
more complex machinery that truly drives the secret motion of things.
The commonly understood factors that drive business or drive human
behavior are too easy.  There isn't much value to be derived if
modeling a business on an oversimplistic model -- if everyone
understands it, where's the opportunity?  If that's all you had to
know to win, then everyone would do it -- whatever it is: business,
music, sales, acting, etc.

The commonly understood factors are just the basics and math is often
the key to modeling systems faster and more accurately.  Usually the
common model is based on a limited set of math.  It's accuracy and
predictions are limited because of this.  Finding true success means
that you have to understand everything at a much deeper level.  Once
you have this deeper understanding, then you can exploit that
knowledge differential towards your success.

This knowledge differential is the differences between your deeper
understanding of a subject against that of the commonly understood
model for your subject of interest.  But you need to be intimately
familiar with each model!  This is so you can understand the
opportunities created by the differences in your model vs. the common
model. And more important, you need to know what leads someone to
believe the common model accurately models a system and why.  You need
to know how people perceive errors in their model of a system and why.
Often this deeper understanding of a trade, a skill or a industry
comes from experience.  Thousands of hours on a subject.

Furthermore there are accurate models of subjects that just aren't
commonly understood yet.  So here, your more complete understanding
gives you an advantage.  You can profit from the disparity in
knowledge here -- but don't be evil, lol!  All joking aside, evil
behavior here includes misleading other people and network marketing
schemes.  Pure evil, unless your cousin pushes CrackStar or something.

But you have to know that, usually, competitive advantage in this case
doesn't last forever, if you depend on some better understanding of
how a market, product or industry works.  If other people manage to
find a better solution to the problem your system solves or if they
find a better model to the system themselves, then your opportunity
begins to fade.  So, unless you have IP that protects you, your
advantage here might only last until a more accurate model of that
system becomes the commonly accepted one.  Social media and SEO are
good examples here.  Some techniques work until they are commonly
known.  And in these cases, you need to posture yourself and your
organization for a healthy transition.  It's your responsibility to
your employees and your organization.

Also, there are factors which are perceived as being driving forces
and strong indicators which aren't really that useful. If you know how
people determine what is important in a marketplace, then you can
profit from the disparity between how they think it works and how you
know it works.  That is, again, you profit from the knowledge
disparity there -- but what is crucial is knowing when certain factors
in a model are going to be proper indications.  If you have experience
in knowing when a factor will determine a system's behavior and you
understand how this affects people's actions, then you can profit.

> A general example: Factor A is usually a good indicator of demand
> for Product X from Industry Y.  It's commonly accepted knowledge for
> stock brokers.  Maybe it's a dip in price for a particular
> commodity.  But your model says: this is true, except when Factor B
> and C supercede A.  In which case, it's actually an indication of
> lower demand for Product X. Then, you know the price is going to
> rise from people's expectations and their misguided purchase of
> stock from Industry Y.  So you know to sell your stock when the
> price rises from the aggregate effect of purchases.  Then, you wait
> for the inevitable drop in price that your model predicts.  Boom.
> Purchase more shares.  Make more money.  Simple as that (not really)

All of this "factor" and "model" bs is very generic, i know.  But it's
very usefull in more than just the stock market.  Everyone wants to
participate in Activity X or Trade Y wants to build a mental model of
how it works, especially if they want to participate competitively.
Some of these models are good and some are bad.  And some people just
exhibit irratic behavior.  But:

- Understanding what people believe
- Inferring their belief structure
- Comparing it to others
- Generalizing belief structures
- Comparing and contrasting them
- And understanding how that affects actions and results

These are crucial to identifying opportunity and mitigating risk in
nearly any market, any subject, any skill, any activity.

Furthermore, the effect these factors and models have grows and wanes.
People who are successful understand why Factor A seems dominant now,
but that it is Factor B which will be dominant in a decade.  So now is
a good time to prepare a venture that expects to profit from Factor B.
While everyone else is expecting Factor A to determine the market for
decades, this signals an opportunity to prepare for profiting from the
disparity in market forces there.

Yet, the only way you can capitalize here is by having the resources
to invest.  If you don't have resources to invest while the
opportunity is open, you can't exactly reap the rewards, nor can you
insulate yourself from a changing market.  In other words, you are
like a leaf in the wind, subject to forces beyond your control.

This is also why I'm so frustrated with being ignored when I had so
many startup ideas over the years.  It's only really an opportunity
until someone dominates the market.  I believe while there is a
plethora of opportunities now, the barrier to entry for technical
startups is going to rise slowly over the next decade.

> Baller Blockin' ... They straight up baller blockin'

And it's crucial to diversify your portfolio when market conditions
seem likely to change.  There's an important conflict of interest here
that many larger entities have: usually they don't want to compete
with themselves.  Why would they develop Product B which would return
20% the profits now when they could just shove their heads in the
sand.  Many businesses at this point pursue other strategies to
mitigate a new technology or product because they are not incentivized
to develop it.  In fact, it's quantifiably more profitable -- knowing
this technology is inevitable -- to stave it off as long as possible
than it would be to develop it themselves.  That is, if the profit
rate for Product A is really that much higher than Product B.  This is
a complicated scenario with several other courses of action, including
purchasing the competitor's IP and snuffing that baby in the cradle.

But, my point is -- heads. in. sand.  In this case, it's a hard sell
to a board of directors to invest in this risky new technology that
might slash through profit margins in 5 years or so.  Why would they
do that when they got a good thing goin on?  And convincing a public
company to do this, when the public shareholders have considerable
influence over the direction of a company?

>"You're going to do what to my dividends?"

Truthfully, the situation describe above, where a company stagnates on
innovation because of conflict of interest probably doesn't play out
that way.  But often it can.  Yet, this signals more opportunity.  If
you know that a new technology is going to revolutionize an industry
and that the juggernauts of that industry can't shift gears fast
enough to capitalize on it, that's an opportunity.

Basically, to sum it up: you gotta know which way the wind blows to
understand how things are going to play out.  Knowledge is key to
constructing an accurate vision of how the world will change.
Instagram was an opportunity partially created because Apple updated
iOS to include the ability to apply filters to photos using OpenGL,
AFAIK.  Basically, if you know what new technologies are coming down
the pipeline, you can prepare to take advantage of them later.  So if
you know that adding OpenGL to iOS will enable features like instant
photo filters, you can prepare to code that shit as fast as you can
out of the gate.  But the key here is to stay in tune with upcoming
tech and understand how it will affect people's use of technology.

And knowing which way the wind blows means knowing which market forces
are going to be dominant and which are going to fall away.  It's
similar to complexity theory (aka Big-O Notation) for algorithms.
Some aspects of an algorithm might seem important and expensive at
first glance.  But in the end, when you apply that algorithm at scale,
those aspects just don't matter.  And this is one lesson to be learned
by employing economies of scale: some factors, like cost of
distribution or whatever, just fall away when your enterprise is
structure to employ economies of scale.

And understanding what market forces are dominant means sorting
through the sea of data and sorting through the noise.  People have
vested interest in getting you to believe something is true.  You have
to sort through all that and understand their incentives, behavior,
beliefs and signaling to find the truth.

----------

## Vision

And this brings us to vision.  Your expert level understanding of your
market, your skill, or whatever it is drives the development of your
vision.  Great people always have a vision, which is driven by how
they believe things are, where they are currently going and is
encompassed by where they believe theings are truly going.  Or the
direction things should truly go, if their vision helps save us from
some poignant fate.

Usually a vision isn't so important when it falls in line with the
commonly accepted paradigm.  How are you going to sell someone on
common sense?  If someone is going to be passionate about it, needs to
be different.  It should have a need to be marketed and pitched
because if it truly diverges from the commonly accepted paradigm, it's
going to be a tough sell.  This doesn't mean every great person's
vision needs to be quasi-religious in nature, but the kool-aid needs
to taste different than what everyone else is serving.

In this sense, your vision needs to instill a sense of importance.
Someone helping you work towards your vision should feel like they are
a part of something, that they have expended lots of effort helping
you build it, that it is important and that there's a higher purpose
towards it, which can be harder to see for other people.  If you are
pulling people in by selling them on a grandiose vision, you really
need to assess it's true value to them.

Your vision will motivate your teams to build the best products out
there.  It should inspire them to create and develop not only your
products, but themselves as well.  Your vision will inspire you to
conceive and reinforce your strategy, in spite of whatever obstacles
appear to be in your way.  It should be fueled by passion and you
should feel compelled to persevere, in spite of setbacks.  It should
also be easily communicated, so that others can understand the values
and beliefs embodied within it.

Your vision, if it is built the right set of knowledge, should
accurately illuminate a path forward for your organization. This
vision should be built on your understanding of your market, your
technologies, and knowledge of your consumer's beliefs.

But .. you know, be realistic.

- Apple Newton
  - publicly was a huge failure but allowed apple to collect a
    ton of data on mobile applications, usage and consumer
    behavior.  positioned apple to conduct mobile research
  - this data & experience was likely critical for determining
    the required processing power, battery life, networking
    capabilities for a successful mobile computing product
    (i.e. the iPhone)
  - so then they would know that when these product specs cross
    over some critical specs, that would be the ideal time to
    release a product *like* the Newton, so that it wouldn't be
    a complete consumer flop
  - and they would have a leg up on the competition and be
    able to take advantage of the hype to ensure that apple's
    mobile product would take off.

### Story

- people love a good story
  - there's always something to be learned
  - you can make your brand, your identity more relatable
  - your story sometimes drives your vision
    - and helps other people understand the 'why' behind your vision

- Southwest Airlines and a cocktail napkin
- Steve Jobs story

========

- a story about how you met your cofounders or what spurred you to create your product are invaluable
  - these are things that cannot be replicated by your competition
  - these are things that cannot be changed
  - and they help cultivate a unique connection between you and your most loyal customres
    - or your potential customers in your market
    - or between you and a new friend

- so if you live life knowing that when you meet a new person, like any new person,
  - you want to notate your first experience(s) with them and always remember them
    - you now have something between the two of you that no one else does
  - but you need to have a vivid awareness of the present moment
    - as well as the desire to remember the small things when they happen
    - in order to really cultivate a new connection in this way
  - otherwise, if you don't keep this in mind
    - (and it takes much intent to acutely focus on the present moment)
    - it's too easy to get distracted by life and all the usual things and all your usual patterns and behaviors
      - many opportunities will pass you by and you'll never even know
      - these things won't seem like opportunities at all if you even notice them anyways
  - and to develop this sense of discerning true novelty and unknown opportunity in your mind
    - you must be acutely aware of present phenomena and the inner workings of your own mind
      - you have to understand how your own mind functions in an accurate and honest way
        - if you ever hope to change it in any meaningful way
    - and it's counterintuitive to think that, in order to change how you look for novelty in everyday things,
      - which requires discovering something new, one needs to become familiar with their own cognitive workings,
      - which is what occludes this stuff in the first place

> "to cultivate a sense of discerning true novelty & unknown opportunity, become acutely aware of the present & your cognitive patterns"

but this skill of looking for the commonly overlooked is a great contributing attribute in
- building a new product or creating a great story to tell or really
  making the most of your life

-------------

- How focusing on you want to tell the story of your life 2-5 years from now
  - helps you focus harder on making the moment at hand more special
  - what did i do that pushed me forward?
  - how did i assess my situation in life to make sure that i got the most out of it
  - when there were setbacks, what did i do to
  - what makes my story different?
  - and why did i do the things i did?
    - is the 'why' something i can tell other people?
      - if not, this *can* indicate negative behavior
      - there's plenty of times when you can't explain why
      - but usually, if you can explain the reasoning behind your behavior and do so honestly ..
  - so if you face some hardships in your life
    - think about how you would overcome them, if you were the hero of your story
- also, this idea that we're all telling our own story can have some downsides
  - like yeh, it can definitely motivate us to turn hardship into a reason to excel
    - but you don't want to just create contrived circumstances.
    - and you don't want to be the villian either, so i don't want
      this to be taken the wrong way

- but also -- living your life and just appreciating that later on,
  you'll be able to tell your story
  - and knowing that it will be a better story because you focused on
    getting the most out of life while you could,
  - -- that, in itself will help drive more positive behavior, i think.
    - you'll create more memorable experiences
    - you'll craft your own story and be able to relate your
      experiences to others in a more meaningful way

- but my point is that great people seem to excel at this skill too
  - at relating what pushed them harder and why their vision matters
    so much to them.

- how my story kinda sucks
  - because i've faced a lot of problems which weren't even that big of a deal
    - but still fumbled, so these parts kinda suck to tell as a story
  - but i've never given up

### Identity

Your vision and story should drive the development of your identity.
They become part of your image and are really all part of the same
thing.  Kind of past,present and future aspects of how you are
perceived, both by yourself and by others.

- your vision becomes part of your identity (segue)
  - your vision becomes part of your image
  - explain why identity/image is so important
- your organization must embody or complement your image

- as much as i hate it, appearances are everything

============

### Orchestration

- so they understand all these things
  - and they see where they want to go
  - they have the passion and energy to push to get there

------------

- but, when confronted with obstacles, they identify an alternate path
  - lack resources for orchestration? they figure out a way to get them
  - lack skills?  they work hard to acquire them
  - terrible reputation/image?  they come up with a strategy for changing it
- they understand the goal and that no one's going to do the work for them
  - they aren't afraid of massive challenge.
  - where they see risk, they see opportunity
  - where they see challenge, they see (opportunity for personal growth)

- know what they want and don't waste their energy chasing things they don't
  - they keep their eye on the ball (very important)
  	- if your energy/time is diverted to other things, you're not
        going to get much done

- hp's machine and how things look different from the top than they do
  from the bottom up
  - 9:06 (whatever i recorded at about 9:06pm)
  - so the exec's need to be able to estimate assets, liabilities, &
    expected revenues, along with risk.
  - they also need to be able to evaluate the effect of hypothetical
    situations without worrying people within their organization will
    believe those situations to be probable or possible
    - espeically when those hypothetical strategies require
      complicated/expensive/controversial action
    - i.e. they might want to examine the effects of laying off large
      amounts of people, without having people in their organization
      worry about the how it will play out or whether it's
      possible/likely at all
    - another good example are wargames
      - run throughs of hypothetical situations

  - important for angel investors  (cut?)
    - if you want to perform as an angel investor,
      - you need strong communication with the companies you fund
        - or at least, you need to have some kind of apparatus in place that provides you with the information you need
          - [reword?]
      - if you aren't capable of getting the straightforward
        information you need about your investments

- no one does anything truly great by accident (well, almost no one)
  - but there are some people,
    - whereby some accident of fate or life circumstance
    - who life equips with not only the insight required to understand the importance of these [attributes]
    - but also the mind/behaviors to create a path and the spirit to conquer these challenges [any obstacles].
  - this is why you must guard your will to fight
    - your [most dangerous] enemies will go for that first
    - the kinds of people you need to look out for won't directly attack you
      - people like that are easy to deal with.  practically take care of themselves.
    - but they'll drain your spirit, redirect your energy and leave you exhausted.


============

### Legal System

explain that i mean they innately understand the rules of the system they create within
- especially as this pertains to intellectual property


I do not mean that they understand intellectual property

### notes

i want to start out with this stuff about myself below, but it's really just not important

other comments:
- i see some of these qualities in myself
  - many of them i observed and learned too late
    - as i have already made far too many mistakes
    - i believe that others can draw on your mistakes
      - and that many problems, although embarrassing or whatever,
      - if the experiences of these problems are shared, then it can truly help others avoid them
  - but are these lessons a curse or a blessing?
    - the ambition required to pursue a path like this ...
      - fosters attachment in me that should not otherwise exist
    - if i didn't desire success and greatness out of a belief that, properly postured, i could truly benefit the world
      - then i wouldn't want it at all
- vulnerability, especially when visible - a weakness in great people?
  - perception of this person by the masses: reality vs appearances
    - if it's important to learn from these people, so we can grow from their experiences
      - then doesn't the distortion of reality detract from this?
    - if these people need to hide theirs vulnerabilities to ensure/protect their success,
      - as well as other qualities
      - then how does the common person sift through the myth and the reality?
