---
title: "International Trends 2020"
categories: blog
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

## [Climate Change: The Smart Grid, Intrinsic Analytics and Economic Dynamics](#climite-change)

#### [Smart Grid Analytics to Power Global Business Intelligence](#smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence)

#### [On Tax-Funded Pollution Cleanup](#on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup)

#### [Climate Change Encourages Cooperation](#climate-change-encourages-cooperation)

#### [Warning About Finance and International Climate Change Policy](#warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy)

#### [Carbon Tax Augments the Global Economy's Mechanisms for Stabilization](#carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization)

#### [Circuits for Liquidity Flux in the Global Economy](#circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy)

#### [Leveraging Data Science to Measure How The Economy Serves the People](#leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people)

#### [Unparalleled Insight Into International Economic Trends](#unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends)


## [Space: Economics and Evolution of Governance Mechanisms](#space-economics-and-evolution-of-governance-mechanisms)

## [Trends in International Law are Gaining Momentum](#trends-in-international-law-are-gaining-momentum)

## [Transnationalism and the Post-Westphalian Era](#transnationalism-and-the-post-westphalian-era)

## [Global Geopolitical Analysis](#global-geopolitical-analysis)



> "Hey, it's me." -- David Conner, the guy without enough money to
> open a bank account who made less than $400 in 2016 and $1717
> in 2015.  The guy without enough skill to be employable in America
> or, at least, to break through being virtually blacklisted by
> negative career experience.

# [Climate Change: The Smart Grid, Intrinsic Analytics and Economic Dynamics](#climite-change)

Carbon dioxide is mostly meaningless in itself. It's a red herring and
a kind of a straw man. Pollution is the real problem, with downstream
effects on biological systems, which are hierarchical, interdependent
and incredibly fragile. As such, pollition will exhibit strong
second-order and third-order impacts on global agriculture
markets. Carbon dioxide, however, serves as a vital ecological metric
informing us on the general degree of pollution. (mention ocean
acidification and other types of cleanup needed)

Climate change and especially its international policy implementations
will drive economic trends in the world. It's nerve-racking for true
conservatives, as these supply & demand dynamics that is *based* on
government policy and bureaucracy. It's based on the collective
agreement that, however helpful or well-intended, that these
activities will continue to provide economic value to industry, thus
the cynical recognize this as unwise or at least precarious. As the
collective policy consensus wavers, so does the actual value of
specific renewables and the incentivization factors driving supply &
demand. Suddenly, *all of those products* -- that people make to meet
a need that was only ever a need to meet some parameter of an
international treaty on climate change -- *dramatically readjust in
perceived value*.

This is essentially a bubble in renewables that continues insofar as
specific apprehensions are maintained by international policy, created
with the best intentions. These policies contribute greatly to
economic opportunity, but entreprenuers should approach them under the
assumption that their value may be erratically dependent on some
arbitrary mechanism of international law. Therefore an entrepreneur
should be wary, as their their business entity, city or nation state
have little control over these dynamics depending on international
policy whims. Since there is undeniable momentum towards renewables
and green practices across the world, this will inevitably happen, but
its handling by policy-makers dramatically affects the order and
quality of trends that emerge.

With few options for risk-mitigation available to entrepreneurs,
international globalist cabals can use green policy to influence
dynamics of the global economy towards the application of some
large-scale strategy. That is: there is money and lots of it to be had
if some group can steer global climate policy.

<a name="smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence" />

### [Smart Grid Analytics to Power Global Business Intelligence](#smart-grid-analytics-to-power-global-business-intelligence)

Analytics on human behavior such as quantifiable behaviors, quantified
clusterings of behavior types, automated psychosocial analyses behind
those behavior types, and resource consumption will become not just
possible, but norms. This degree of quantifiable behavior and its
level of pervasion throughout life creates a paradigm shift that is
like a nightmare scenario for the SEC. We might actually be able to
"wrap-around" from automated signals on human behavior to finanacial
indicators to reach a point where no stock price is unpredictable
beyond a threshold.

<a name="on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup" />

### [On Tax-Funded Pollution Cleanup](#on-tax-funded-pollution-cleanup)

There's an opportunity for monetization of pollution cleanup that many
of the same corporations who contributed to pollution to clean it
up. Those who profited off the creation of these problems should not
be the ones draining the tax coffers getting rich cleaning them up.
There should be lots of opportunity for business here. Unfortunately,
there aren't many ways to naturally incentivize pollution cleanup. It
must be financed through government programs, but as such, it is
dependent on growth elsewhere in the economy. Therefore, pollution
cleanup is always a net drain on the economy.

<a name="climate-change-encourages-cooperation" />

### [Climate Change Encourages Cooperation](#climate-change-encourages-cooperation)

In which ways does climate change contributed towards cooperation and
thus stability? It contributes to better economic planning and
anticipation of demand through faster/immediate feedback loops and
high quality data on patterns of consumption, especially energy
consumption. Developed states can market their products to contribute
to development of nations, connecting them to global markets. At this
point, a global framework begins to coalesce, which provides resource
consumption analytics. This framework layered on top of smart-grid
consumption data provides a fabric of metrics to measure usage/purpose
and is essential for accurate assessment of carbon tax offsets.
Demand from developing and recently developed nations increases the
aggregate demand for high-tech products towards its maximum, where the
aggregate demand for these products is highest when penetration of
development of nations is complete. Conversely, need/risk for
destablization of populations becomes balanced with the an economic
need for stability.

Through balanced trade, the parties tend to stabalize each other via a
economic & political framework for incentivization and mutually
beneficial partnership. This economically incentivizes peace and
stability, which provides counterbalance to other stress points around
the world. This ameliorates potential issues through cooperation and
deincentivizes conflict by providing the entire system with net gain
through stability and deviation from maximum economic utility during
times of conflict.

<a name="warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy" />

### [Warning About Finance and International Climate Change Policy](#warning-about-finance-and-international-climate-change-policy)

Conservatives are rightfully skeptical of manmade institutions created
to strongly dictate international norms for the purpose of some
abstract ideals. This generally confers the power to determine global
economic trends related to mission of the institution. in many cases,
this delegates US authority to some institution outside US control. In
the specific case of climate change, nowhere is there more capacity
for second and third order effects to commerce and society than
climate and energy policy.

> Therefore: step one, control the policy; step two, anticipate
> resulting trends and place bets; step three, profit.

For every change in capital for some stock, commodity or derivative,
there are ideal trading tactics. The capacity for profit increases
with the size of the changes. The timing of these large liquidity
fluxes can be controlled by restraining, accelerating and anticipating
climate policy changes.

- TODO: underscore the risk for massive green insider trading schemes

- however, as a libertarian, i am just all-in-all distrustful of
  such artificial international institutions
  - this is partially bc such rules and such mechanisms add value
    only through mechanisms WHICH DEPEND SOLELY ON PEOPLE'S BELIEFS
    - which is what i mean by a purely artificial mechanism
    - this is not necessarily bad, but something people need to
        understand so everyone is on the same page.

<a name="carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization" />

### [Carbon Tax Augments the Global Economy's Mechanisms for Stabilization](#carbon-tax-augments-the-global-economys-mechanisms-for-stabilization)

Carbon policy augments the avenues for stability and capital flux in
the global economy, but isn't the only policy needed to help ensure
consistent opportunities for commerce and finance across the globe.
Via mechanisms enumerated in the Paris Accord, states with space, but
insufficient industry, could instead leverage carbon offsets as a
means for producton in economies where other options aren't present.

For example, island nations with large swaths of shallow/placid
CZ(Contiguous Zone) and EEZ(Extended Economic Zone) can use the space
to produce energy or reduce carbon. As will be shown in further in the
article, some of these states are ideal for facilitating space
commerce. If the world decides to set up such an artificial
international institution to regulate carbon, developing states begin
to develop faster and this will generally drive demand for tech
products, which should fuel economic growth the world over. The
economics of renewables and smart-grid products are interdependent, as
each establishes a platform that adds value to other. After a
threshold of infrastructure, there is an added network effect that
accelerates demand for both renewables and smart-grid products.

These mechanisms like those of the Paris Accord augment the global
economy with a mechanism for liquidity displacement and therefore
augment stability. However, these mechanisms for commerce are
artificial and dependent on trends in international policy. In
consideration of tendency of policy changes to create displacement of
capital, ...

<a name="circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy" />

### [Circuits for Liquidity Flux in the Global Economy](#circuits-for-liquidity-flux-in-the-global-economy)

> TODO: equation?

In global finance, the integral of liquidity displacement over time
for corporations and states is an incredibly important measure of the
total displacement and movement of capital. Therefore, if one wants
to make money, one must observe global economic trends to identify and
predict major liquidity displacements, tending to accumulate slices of
profit from each such movement.  That is, every time a large sum of
captial changes hands, one can take a percentage of those transactions
by: being in the right place, at the right time, with the right ideas,
with the right amounts of money.  It's all based on accumulated strips
of liquidity from major liquidity displacements. i.e. It's all based
on observing the integral of the of liquidity movements between major
nodes in the graph of economic players and various aggregates of this.

Taking a systems theory approach, these potential connections for
capital exchange are like circuits, through which is established
natural, balance-restoring feedback loops via potential global
economic liquidity/wealth transfers. Neighborhoods of the global
economy with low capital flux are at higher risk of economic issues
and would benefit more from additional mechanisms for capital flux. In
context of taking care to provide economic stability during dramatic
technology shifts, this is incredibly important for a responsible
approach.

For neighborhoods in the global economy with low capital flux, in
addition to increasing capacity/propensity for capital flux, we should
focus on moving capital into the hands of more people. Incredibly
important for global economic stability, more circuits whereby
liquidity redistributions can rediverted capital back into the hands
of people. If one pictures a liquidity flux or capital displacement in
the global economy as wealth shifting from one group to another, then
one can zoom out and picture higher-order liquidity flux from groups
of nodes to others.

<a name="leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people" />

### [Leveraging Data Science to Measure How The Economy Serves the People](#leveraging-data-science-to-measure-how-the-economy-serves-the-people)

One can use data science to obtain metrics from an economies tendency
to fairly redistribute wealth into the hands of many. These metrics
could be used to inform investment behavior changes that help fairly
redistribute wealth in a natural way that doesn't involve government
regulation and bureaucracy. This is because, now, we can get much
better feedback through data science on how the economy benefits the
common person. And if it doesn't, we know that something has to change
and it becomes trivial to demonstrate this.

The point is not to forcibly redistribute wealth. Instead, it is to
architect systems whereby everyone shares wealth and ideally that
global population is essentially equivalently invested in the global
economy.

<a name="unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends" />

### [Unparalleled Insight Into International Economic Trends](#unparalleled-insight-into-international-economic-trends)

Carbon tax provides insights into global economic trends, by
leveraging the smart grid to help humanity understand how people
consume resources, qualitatively and quantitatively. Everyone across
the globe should be on the same page with this, so we can all empower
ourselves with this insight.

Further, this is where the money is in the smart grid and in green
tech. These metrics all depend on the features and level of data,
integration and global product penetration. Therefore, policy should
universalize the framework for smart-grid appliance & infrastructure
metrics, so that everyone benefits.  The higher various qualities are
optimized for metrics, the greater the degree of value that is added
to society as a whole, but this value is maximized when everyone is on
the same page. Business is about having a set of assumptions about the
world that can deliver profit if one acts on them. If policy
determines a consistent framework, then other products can more easily
add value on top of that framework, but those products depend on the
assumption that the framework supports the product. Therefore, an
inconsistent framework leads to consistent churn in the
competitiveness of viable products.

### [An International Institution with Authority to Tax and Regulate](#an-international-institution-with-authority-to-tax-and-regulate)

By donning a perspective enhanced by game theory, one can see that
climate change is an issue that can only be solved by getting all
nations on board. The larger the nation, the more important it is that
they are on board and remain committed to restraining elements of
their economy for environmental conservation. The two most important
nations are the US and China, upon which consensus can be built.

Knowing that green policies acting to restrain Climate Change require
the entire world on board to be successful makes the power conferred
to these international institutions all the more precarious. With the
whole world's weight behind an international institution equipped with
what is essentially the power to tax, survey and regulate
international commerce, libertarians and true conservatives know to
fear this all the more. Commerce is everything and the power to
control commerce is the power to control everything. Extend this power
worldwide and you'll begin to understand why conservatives might be
nervous: they hold American sovereignty higher than any international
institution.

Combined with the ability to conduct climate-policy-fueled insider
trading, it's no wonder that conservatives are hesitant to move
forward. Globally moving forward on this policy confers the
international leftist order the ability to micromanage economies from
the comfort of obscure international institutions. Enable this and
watch in wonderment as western economies collapse in controlled
demolitions. Just watch and remind yourself that you "saved the
planet" every time you see another economic crisis like Athens,
Greece.

> "With our powers combined, we summoned a controlled demolition of
> western economies. Ironically, we're now living in third-world
> nation status and hating every minute of it. But hey, we saved the
> planet, didn't we?" -- Liberals in 2030

Perhaps greater than the power to influence economies through
international climate policy is the power to compel nations to
disclose information about their economic activities. Yes, the Paris
Agreement is implemented as a protocol, which means that member
nations simply need to conform to specific reporting requirements
without necessarily exposing their internal specifics via a global
reporting mechanism. However, this means that each member nation's
independence and competitiveness becomes limited. To understand the
specific mechanics of the Paris Agreement, it's crucial to actually
read it, regardless of your leanings on the issue of climate. The
Paris Agreement or something like it is inevitable, but actual
discussion of the specifics is crucial, as something like Paris cannot
so easily be undone. Shoving your head in the ground like an ostritch
isn't going to help anyone, which is a warning that applies equally to
the right and the left.

Further, this international autherity for taxation, quantification and
regulation of commerce represents the possibility of transition
towards a centerpiece for true global one-world government. As such,
it should thoroughly scrutinized by everyone. As a potential mechanism
for transition to one-world government, it is lunacy for conservatives
to remain uninvolved. Imagine if it actually an intermediate step in
transition towards one-world government and conservatives remained
completely uninvolved...

> By the way, I'd like to mention that have the ability to unite both
> the left and right to a degree exhibited and unseen by anyone else
> on the planet. I imagine a better world, where Americans on the left
> and right cooperate to make America great again.

  - the international authority to measure correlates with the
    collection high-value data
    - this, amoung other things, requires a huge amount of trust
  - this institution represents the ability to transition authority
    for a means of taxation to an international institution
    - at least, to a degree never before see
    - to me, unless most properly implemented, this represents a
      threat to sovereignty not just to america, but to every nation
      on earth
      - it actually scares me a bit
  - not only is the data on resource utilization/demand dangerous, but
    so is the capacity for macro & micro economic shenanigans
    - i don't think very many on the left or right have thought about
      this issue in this way, actually
      - to many, it's a matter of right and wrong, with respect to the
        environment or the economy.
      - to me, it's incredibly more complex than that. it's a matter
        of ethical risk and sovereignty

### [Fundamental Advancements Towards Tomorrow's Smartgrid](#fundamental-advancements-towards-tomorrows-smartgrid)

- TODO: notes

### The Smart Grid and the Importance of Stability in Developing Nations to Interdependent Economic Sectors

  - something like pulse-width shift between digital/analog
  - the AC/DC divide pushes from consumer electronics to homes, cars
    and higher order containments of DC electronics systems with
    capacity for dynamic power managment where current carries power
    AND data.
    - this shift creates trillions in demand for replacement of
      electric grid infrastructure *worldwide* gradually across three
      decades
    - the mechanics of this flux of demand rippling through the global
      economie affect industrialized nations differently than
      developing nations with less infrastructure
      - the nations with more infrastructure to replace do it more
        slowly, which creates a need to gradually shift to new
        infrastructure, requiring backwards compatability.
        - this requirement for backwards compatibility limits the
          payoffs to infrastructure updates, which could mean that
          undeveloped nations are more likely to benefit more quickly
        - in the end, we all end up with mostly the same set of
          capabilities from upgraded smart grid infrastructure, but
          less developed nations are better positioned to receive
          these benefits faster with less cost and less design
          constraints.
        - therefore, the flux of demand will tend to strongly impact
          developing nations, as they get higher payoffs for cheaper,
          as long as there is some threshold of stability.
        - therefore, if the united states can leverage its authority
          as an international power player to compel others to help
          foment stability in these nations, then we can
          simultaneously position ourselves to help supply that
          demand. The demand is a product of the expectation of
          permanent stablity in these nations.
        - therefore, the US helps provide stability and profits from
          the export of electric grid technology, while retaining the
          benefits it receives from the analytics based on smart grid
          consumption analytics and uses this data to stay ahead AND
          help promote the level of stability that makes it all
          possible.

### Interactions b/w the Smart Grid and Real Estate Prices

- increased demand for smart grid in developed states
  - but also developing states, since they are either upgrading older
    gear and/or installing fresh electric grid gear

- changes to real estate (predictable) based on:
  - (1) renewables & specifics of real-estate
  - (2) potential of real-estate to be upgraded w/ smart grid tech
    - the specific rollout dynamics of such technology
  - (3) the upper bound on renewables wattage for a building
    - e.g. urban buildings have almost no capacity for wind (on top)
      and less capacity for solar, but still have capacity for
      biological-based renewables (though these often require
      sunlight/external energy)
  - (4) capacity for urban food production

- someone can create an event-driven purchasing strategy to profit in
  the billions from predictable changes in real-estate strategy
  - if you can influence policy as it crucially relates to
    real-estate, you can easily profit in the billions
  - but, someone making the wrong moves here could cost america
    trillions. this, however, does not mean that the selfish decisions
    here would necessary contradict america's own interests and
    incentives.

### water, irrigation and desalinization

- smartgrid/renewables become essential for agriculture and
  desalinization
  - many settled areas around the world are running out of water and
    will need to offset their lack of fresh water with desalinized
    water, but there just aren't cheap & efficient ways to do that
    without large amounts of renewable energy, like solar.
    - therefore, if you look at the differential in water consumption
      as a proportion of underground freshwater reserves remaining,
      you'll identify markets who will need renewable-powered
      desalinization in order to produce local food, etc.
  - opportunity for state-funded geoengineering projects, which will
    include those regions mentioned above.
  - an incredibly useful product would be one to consume energy &
    produce water for irrigation.
- desalinization will tend to lower sea-levels, which *raises* the
  proportion of pollutants to sea water, but may not be enough to
  counter polar ice melting.

# [Space: Economics and Evolution of Governance Mechanisms](#space-economics-and-evolution-of-governance-mechanisms)

Eventually, value added to society by smart-grid and consumer behavior
metrics may begin to surpass the value of oil, especially in an
economy with a altered set of fundamentals. What lubricates both
capacity and efficiency of product exchange? Oil. However, in an
information economy, there are more virtual products and information
is leveraged to make purchasing decisions.

3D printing and nano create radically a different economic situation.
At first, the economic response to commercialized space is strongly
affected by proximity to resources inbound from space and terrestrial
pricing of equivalent resources.


- mention the conflict theory article.
  - identify why space may lead to a post-post-westphalian transition

### access to space becomes critical to a renewables economy

- at least, until humanity has access to space, capacity for energy
  production requires space. this is true, almost first and foremost.
  - i.e. if you don't have space (surface area on earth) you can't
    produce large quantities of energy
    - this is why island nations with large
      [CZ](http://www.gc.noaa.gov/gcil_maritime.html) &
      [EEZ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Exclusive_economic_zone)
      have both:
      - (1) capacity for wind (& solar? maybe ... dependends on
        engineering specifics i.e. durability)
      - (2) capacity for carbon cleanup by reducing quantities of
        dissolved CO2 via access to large swaths of ocean.
    - and by "first and foremost" i mean that the quantity of energy a
      nation or tract of land can produce is a (multiplicative)
      *product* of *at least* the area (or volume in some cases) of
      space available
  - the economic mechanics here are *similar* to that of food
    production. to produce food, you must first *at least* have
    land. no land no food.
    - but, with renewables, now land that can't be used for food can
      at least be used for energy production. this stabalizes the
      value of land for nations that have, until recently, been
      screwed by fate of geography & resource distribution.

- therefore, access to space becomes critical in an economy which is
  increasingly driven by resource availability and price
  - to this end, nano-based waste reclaimation becomes enticing 4
    countries w/ landfills
  - whether/when space elevator tech becomes available, then this
    real-estate becomes valuable
    - this tech is dependent on carbon nano-fibers
    - the valuable land here is equatorial land, which stands in
      contrast to trend whereby arctic and antarctic land becomes
      valuable for unexploited resources (this is a bit of a side
      trek)
      - but honestly, it'd be wise to hold off as long as possible
        before tapping those resources IF EVER
        - it's kind of like robbing santa claus (but not really)
        - would you rob chris cringle? it's really not that bad
          though. however, with better technology, humanity would be
          much better equipped to tap these resources without
          interfering with the environment, which is at least one
          reason why we should wait.

### Commercialized Space Travel's Influence on Large Scale Real-Estate Trends

- (from speculative history article)
- equatorial regions valuable as ideal locations for both:
  - geostationary space elevators
  - space launch locations
- and therefore, there is a gravitation towards the north/south
  poles for resources, followed by a counter-trend of gravitation
  towards the equator for both sending/receiving resources to/from
  space
- depending on the engineering specifics of space elevators, some
  equatorial regions may be more or less valuable than others
- there are also quasi-geostationary space elevators, augmented with
  basic propulsion.
  - these are easier to build because they don't require as much
    nano-tech.
    - i.e. solar sail + ion propulsion upwards, while dangling a
      space-elevator downwards, so it's always falling but always
      moving upwards.
      - combine this with a means of getting stuff 20km into the air
        and you have yourself a space elevator that doesn't need to
        overcome the tension requirements that are prohibiting us from
        obtaining one now
    - this isn't exactly a new idea, but it is likely that something
      like this will be the first kind of space elevator


### space-faring institutions establish sovereignty using transnationalism

- more on this....
- transnationalism is one of the most important concepts we can be
  feeling out right now. because it was new as hell to me (and a bit
  scary, actually!!!)
  - they need to be declared as transnational entities, politically,
    because of their massive cost structures and their need to
    flexibly reposition themselves in anticipation of unpredictable
    global economic trends

# [Trends in International Law are Gaining Momentum](#trends-in-international-law-are-gaining-momentum)

- international norms => policy on AI & usages & limitations
  - analogy for cyber/infowar w/ epidemic

### At Birth, Every Individual has a Tabula Rasa of Legal Rights/Obligations

- Every individual has a Nearly "tabula rasa" set of rights, at birth
  - that is, there are some
- As I understand an US Citizen or Individual's rights in
- arguments from the information warfare articles:

### Transnationals Should Always At Least Have Human Rights

- it seems it's possible for people to declared to have no rights,
  secretly. These people should always have some inalienable human
  rights.
-

### International Policy for IAC & NIAC, with respect to Transnationalism

- The architects of international policy and law on human rights
  missed a spot and it's a quite concerning...
- according to Harvard ILJ and/or US Naval War College, there are
  major differences in how sections of UN/Geneva policy apply to IAC's
  & NIAC's
  - i.e. IAC/NIAC: international & non-international armed conflicts
  - the Geneva Convention and UN Charter only require adherence to
    human rights norms for IAC's
    - the implementation for the international basis of human rights
      differs in IAC's vs. NIAC's
    - NIAC's basically aren't covered (not by certain sections of the
      geneva convention & UN charter that define the legal basis of
      those norms)
- this is why the concept of transnationalism is very scary
  indeed. it's the breakdown of the westphalian paradigm, which has
  held steadfast the notions themselves of statehood
  - the westphalian paradigm is what is responsible for those lines on
    a map that define a nation. as international law is concerned now,
    the only confusion that arises over the distinction b/w nations is
    when territory of a nation is disputed b/w nations.
  - i.e. nations are defined geographically iff the westphalian
    paradigm is accepted as a norm, but if/when it begins to break
    down, then the idea itself of statehood becomes something which is
    less clearly defined
    - With the westphalian paradigm, nations are geographically bound.
      you can be a Dutch citizen standing in the Netherlands and
      you're clearly a Dutch citizen standing on Dutch soil, where
      Dutch laws apply to you (local/provincial/federal)
      - for this Dutch citizen, some international law applies as well
      - but if this man travels to the UK, then clearly, the UK's laws
        begin to apply (and in some circumstances, the man's
        home-state's laws could also restrict his rights to some
        degree, even in the UK)

- the concept of transnationalism causes the westphalian paradigm to
  begin to break down. transnationalism makes it less clear how laws
  and treaty provisions apply.
  - if you have your citizenship revoked as a US citizen, what laws
    apply to you?
    - if this is for national security purposes, then would you even
      know whether your rights as a US Citizen have become forfeit?
      - you answered "yes, of course!" didn't you
      - are you sure? are you really sure that you would know your
        rights had been restricted?
  - according to some international law scholars (with whom i'm not
    sure I agree in principle, etc.)
    - transnationalism eventually evolves into postnationalism, which
      is kind of a globalist wetdream, but may also just be where the
      world has evolved by the 22nd century (or maybe the 23rd)
    - transnationalism is an *unbelievably vague* concept that can
      have very different meanings and legal implications, depending
      on the context.
  - as the westphalian paradigm begins to lose it's grip in the minds
    of those who hold power in nations, then this vague notion of
    transnationalism begins to manifest itself as an "in between
    state" of "nation" and "non-nation"
    - it becomes less clear what a nation "is" and especially so when
      one realizes that almost every sane, well-learned person thinks
      of the United States as a "place" and not as a "legal entity"
      under the purview of some higher authority
- what provoked my exploration of this? the concepts of authority and
  legitimacy to international law/policy/institutions
  - what authority does an international institution actually hold?
    why? how can one compel such an institution to change its policies
    or their implementation, if they are claimed to be unfair?
    - there are tons of very good questions here, if you want to get
      your feet wet, with regard to international law.
    - i never expected myself to become interested in Military Law or
      Maritime Law, but I've downloaded the UN Law of the Sea treaty
      (unsigned by US) as well as the DoD's 1,200+ page review of US
      Military Law, as the DoD has interpreted it.
  - but once i dipped my toe into the waters of international law &
    transnationalism, hundreds of questions flooded into my mind.
    - suddenly, nothing was clear.

### International Regulation of Supply Chains

- There is a fantastic Harvard ILJ article on this specific issue,
  which is absolutely fascinating. In terms of novel-information
  density (i.e. the percentage of content new to me) this single
  article may have accelerated my general level of knowledge more than
  any other writing I've ever consumed.
  - that is, this single article stimulated my own imagination more
    than anything else I have ever read and did so in terms of each:
    - number/kind of specific fields covered and the quantity/quality
      of new information
  - that International Supply Chain article isn't the only such
    article I've consumed in the past 3 months which has accelerated
    my acquisition of knowledge to personally unknown levels.
- TODO: what about it?
  - how is it difficult? how does international supply chain
    regulation affect cost structures and the incentivization of
    corporate behavior?

# Transnationalism

### TransNatl: In the context of the Westphalian Paradigm

- transition from the
  [westphalian paradigm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Westphalian_sovereignty)
  could end up being very messy: politically, culturally, and
  economically.
  - some of the people architecting this know it, to varying degrees
  - this takes place b/w 2015-2050
    - if approached in the right way (i.e. WITH *COMMUNICATION* and
      *TIME*) then it's probably not that bad


### UN As "root" in the network of subgraphs of power structures

- this is a perspective i'm using to feel out my own understanding of
  international law & institutions
  - UN as "root" in the network of subgraphs of power structures
    - not that it's "root" in terms of authority
      - a la linux ~~ super-user
    - but root as in uppermost in totality
- reference harvord international law journal idea about
  transnationalism and the "multi-hub" architecture of overlapping
  transnational soveriegnty (i think)
  - but, with this perspective, then authority becomes shared/tiered
    and there are overlapping degrees (& tiers) of sovereignty
    - this is already happening by the way, but there are good and bad
      ways to transition into such a state
      - i.e. it may take centuries for this to occur "naturally"
      - literally centuries

### international trade agreements

- the three T's trade agreements are an example of such an overlapping
  structure of sovereignties, but i'm just not sure that's the right
  idea
  - there may be no greater power than the power to regulate trade
    - EVERYTHING RELATES TO COMMERCE
      - and possibly descends from commerce

- 3 T's Trade agreements below the UN to establish dominance over
  trade to stifle the pheonomenon of "plurality" and complexity begot
  from plurality in series of Bilateral Trade Agreements
  - this was just an idea i was feeling out by imagining UN as "root"
    and these three tiered, overlapping degrees of sovereignty
    descending from it (relating to the harvard ILJ multi-hub paper)
    - however, i am not, in any way, saying this is the way it should
      be or even trying to put this out there (though i am, i guess)
      - i don't think we should go dissolving notions and
        implementations of sovereignty
      - like i said, these kinds of trends take centuries


### TransNatl: In the context of Trade/ISDS & Federal Law

- ISDS
  - US Code
  - TPP/TKIP
  - Saudi Law (the 9-11 bill)
    - this law was written in a VERY dubious manner
    - and passed like 97-1 !!!
    - POSSIBLE MEDIA BAIT-AND-SWITCH ... IMO
    - yeh, i'm not even !@#$'ing kidding read that bill
  - National Security Laws
  - trade & treaty agreements

### examples of multi-hub (overlapping) international agreements

- these kinds of agreements can act as subgraphs in a multi-hub
  architecture of global institutions
  - again, i'm not saying this is how it should be. i'm mostly trying
    to explore these concepts, so i can more properly conceptualize
    them

- trade: NAFTA/TPP/TTIP
  - eughh...
- regional policy agreements (environmental/industrial/etc)
- technology/IP agreements
- strategic/military
- and more, no doubt

### NAFTA/TPP Chapter 11

- how do the ISDS clauses differ? do they both cover non-state
  individuals?
  - what status do non-enemy combatants have?
    - IMO, if you don't have the rights of a citizen, you are not a
      citizen, but you should still fall under the authority of NAFTA
    - and therefore, if THE GOVERNMENT PROVABLY DEPRIVED YOU of
      opportunities by abusing law and skirting on human rights
      issues, you should be able to SUE THE FUCK OUT OF THEM IN AN
      INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION SUIT
    - particularly, if your business is owned by an individual who is
      not a citizen and was intended to be used as a launching pad for
      opportunities of which you were provably and forcibly deprived,
      you should be able to SUE THE FUCK OUT OF THE AMERICAN
      GOVERNMENT ... maybe
      - obviously, you're going to need a really good lawyer. like a
        dozen of them, which sucks, BECAUSE THE GOVERNMENT SUBJECTED
        YOU TO PSYCHOLOGICAL TORTURE AND DEPRIVED YOU OF ECONOMIC
        OPPORTUNITIES
        - *so basically, your life better be a great goddamn charity
          case, because otherwise you are shit out of luck.*

# Global Geopolitical Analysis

### South China Sea

- china's motivations for action include expansion of geopolitical
  boundaries to fuel several decades of conflict.
  - this change with geopolitically destabalize the entire oceanic
    region! and also, china, which for most of its history, has only
    cared about china, geographically
    - that's an oversimplification, but for a very long time, conflict
      there has been contained to that region (AFAIK. i'm not a
      scholar on asiatic history)
- i can't really elaborate on this

### Russia/Ukraine

- reference articles on russia

### Middle East

### Balancing It Out

Because opportunities are not being so stagnated in South America and
Africa, we should be establishing strong ties in these places. China
is. We can't let China outpace our diplomacy in Africa because Africa,
as made obvious above, is a major source large-scale demand for
investment and infrastructure products. Therefore, Africa is going to
increase sharply in significance from 2020 through 2050, economically
and politically. Africa is going to remember who helps them out
through this time when they start investing in infrastructure like
never before.

India is also incredibly important in the global economy because they
are a nation of one billion powering itself through an industrial
transformation. The dynamics of this transformation differ greatly
from that of China's industrial transformation because India can
supply both ends of the supply/demand equation and is much more likely
to be able to help themselves through this. China fueled it's decade
long stint of double digit GDP growth with American consumerism and
American debt. India doesn't need to do that, but needs access to
Asian markets through the South Sea. This global shift in the economy
is going to make Singapore much more relevant, although the benefits
of this may fall moreso to China if they pull off this South Sea
bullshit.

# Misc

### fusion

- "game-ending. if you get fusion, you win the game." 'nuff said

### supply chain "dimension"

- supply chain dimension of the American & Global Economies
  - reference arguments from article on regulating conflict minerals
    trade in african nations
  - elaborate on mechanics/dynamics of shifting supply chains
    - especially in the context of novel materials/fabrication tech

- structure of entities/costs/markets in the medical industry
  - in context of research, change in regulation to facilitate faster
    research and faster time-to-market
  - in the context of miracle treatments, turning formerly untreatable
    illnesses into trivially treated ones. Or rendering prohibitively
    expensive treatments into worthlessly broken profit machines.
  - it makes a big difference on the size of health care in proportion
    to other units in the American and global economies.
- the tale of asclepius, who almost cured every disease and was thus
  struck down my zeus, who feared the immortality of man.
  - people have been aware of the problems inherent in the economics
    of medicine for a long, long time.

- TODO: include thoughts on bill gate's idea to tax some form of
  automation
  - it's a good idea to promote economic stability in the context of
    the changed that the 21st century economy will undergo via 3D
    printing, etc.
  - however, the challenge is codifying it into law in a way that is
    fair, simple and not government micromanagement of the economy.
    - that's not to say it's impossible or impractical, just that it's
      a challenge
