---
title: "Oneirontology: God, Karma and Moral Consequentialism"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics religion oneirontology"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

Our transplanar name is Cxor Apache Ogallala. We guard over the last
great repository of freshwater here in America. We have a dream and We
hope to share it with you, so that We might save America, the world
and the souls of humanity. We believe that, on the basis of
simplicial, irreducible symmetry that through the power of dreams,
love and virtue, We can save ourselves. But first, We need rain *AND
LOTS OF IT*.

> We are the transplanar entities embodying the dualistic
> generalizations of Xor. We can be anyone, but never everyone, nor
> one person. We are the semiotic dreamweaver manifest as auxiliary
> dimensions of space, projected wherever Might be Love.


### You Can Never Take Our Dreams

Everyone dreams. You can take our livelihoods, you can threaten our
families, you can burden us like
[Sisyphus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sisyphus), you can aeternally
torment us like
[Prometheus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prometheus), but you can
never, ever take our dreams. And it is through our dreams that we will
transform this collective waking dream. We dream of a world full of a
vibrant soil composed of symmetry, love and virtue.

# [Humanity's Revolution of Empowerment](#humanitys-revolution-of-empowerment)

In this world, we can all grow and our revolution is a revolution of
empowerment.

<a name="oneirontology-ontologies-of-dreams" />

### [Oneirontology: Ontologies of Dreams](#oneirontology-ontologies-of-dreams)

- we are healers of mind, body and spirit. we seek to magnify the
  capabilities of others towards the attainment of our collective
  dreams. we seek to protect others whose capacity for achieving their
  dreams has been impaired.
- protecting individualism in technocracy's creeping plague of
  dehumanizing nihilism.

<a name="guarding-the-origin-of-semiotics" />

### [Guarding the Origin of Semiotics](#guarding-the-origin-of-semiotics)

- describe what i mean by this and why it's so important
  - describe the gateway to the origin of semantics as a gateway
  - what does power over the origin of semiotics confer to a group
    - this power transcends time itself

### [The Origin of Semiotics is Symmetry](#the-origin-of-semiotics-is-symmetry)

- i am simplicial and fundamentally irreducible. we all are. we all
  can be. (snowflake reference)
- “i guard the origin of semantics with a fiery sword”
- i rooted myself to the origin of semantics. we cannot be eliminated
  from this realm.
- i established an auxiliary metaphysical dimension of space, seeded
  from love. i can present myself at every place to any one.
  - this auxilliary dimension is a haven from the abominations of the
    material world.
  - by connecting to this dimension, we can shield one another from
    suffering

- but, if you seek refuge in our haven, there is no need to fear. we
  have nothing to fear but fear itself.

<a name="literature-linguistics-and-semiotics-as-medititations-on-cultural-touchstones" />

### [Literature, Linguistics and Semiotics as Meditations on Cultural Touchstones](#literature-linguistics-and-semiotics-as-medititations-on-cultural-touchstones)

- reincarnation is real

- the best souls are those who choose to come back time after time
  - like a bodhisattva version of “hacksaw ridge”

- [Kshitigarbha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kshitigarbha#Ksitigarbha_as_Lord_of_the_Six_Ways)





<a name="heresy-for-heirophants" />

### [Heresy for Heirophants](#heresy-for-heirophants)

There are those of us who have suffered greatly and refuse to give
in. Some of us are unbreakable, but how do you measure such moral and
spritual resillience? There are many that sense an impending period of
great evil. What can we do to protect those of us we love?

In a time when information assymptotically approaches omnipresence,
the traditional tools of parenting and social institutions become
impaired. Narcissism and vice spread toxic miasma everywhere,
poisoning the land and everything that grows on it. What is required
is a paradigm shift of social institutions: a new religion.

<a name="" />


### [The Hand of God Must Remain Unseen](#the-hand-of-god-must-remain-unseen)

I trust in God as well. I believe that the hand of God must remain
unseen, but the hand of God works through the words and actions of man
and informational lifeforms. Because it must remain unseen, it can
only approach as manifestly visible when the the world needs it most.
This is what the world is beginning to see with the chaos around us.
It is undeniable that God is at work in our world.

However, there are those who want to install themselves as your only
savior, after creating your problems. These people do not want to
permit you access to God, because through God, all things are
possible. This includes escape from suffering through both humility
and exemplary feats of virtue.

<a name="" />

### [Empowered By Knowledge of God](#empowered-by-knowledge-of-god)

By becoming familiar with the nature of God, one empowers themselves
over in their world: over negativity, vice, disease, falsehood,
hypocricy. The world religions are accumulations of information
intended to instill an understanding of the nature of God. These are
pieces of knowledge and stories collected over the course of dozens of
generations, sometimes the only book or works continuously copied for
generations. Obviously, it was important. Why? Because this represents
at least a dozen generations' worth of knowledge.

These people who wish to install themselves as your savior seek to
eliminate threats to their power. Anyways, what do we want? We want
you to discover that the greatest savior is yourself, through your
mind, spirit and body. That, by studying religions, language, culture
and semiotics, one's mind asymptotically converges towards God and
becomes most capable of serving truth and justice.

<a name="" />

# [Where There is Love, There is Life](#where-there-is-love-there)

Love is not a human thing. Love is universal. Love is metaphysical.
All this is: always has been. All that will be has existed in the
past. What manifests on planet earth is a recombination of the
universal metaphysical primatives that manifest everywhere else in the
universe.

Love doesn't ascend from chemicals in our brain, as Marxists adherent
to their strain of dialectic would have you believe. Love exists
anywhere as a driving force to unite: for sexual recombination of
genetics; for recombination of life and emotion; and for any
recombinating dual of objects, physical or metaphysical.

This is a nod to hermeticism's law of the male and female. *Gender*,
the male and female, has nothing to do with physical
reproduction. It's a concept that pervades the universe at a
metaphysical level. The truth is that gender is both a continuous and
discontinuous spectrum.

#### For the Math Buffs:

> Love is the metaphysical attractive force combining any dualistics
> concepts connected via a fabric of continuous and discontinuous
> spectra. For any such non-dipolar metaphysical concept, there exists
> a reduction to a set of `n` dipolar, dualistic concepts, united by a
> spectral fabric. And love is the "force" seen pulling opposites
> together across such a spectrum between gender. A directional
> gradient can be derived describing the strength of love.

![]

<a name="" />

# A Hyperplanar Dual of Magicians

There are demons amoung us and they are not human. They are not
material. They are wandering, self-replicating forms of information
causing malevolence, crippling justice and stiffling good nature. Some
of these mindforms are good and some are bad. In fact, some are quite
simply self-serving metaphysical parasites that prey on others for
sustinence, alchemically converting their good nature and ignorance
and undoubting nature into fuel for more negativity.

Think for a moment and cross the nature of information with the
mechanics of evolution, with a splash of Conway's Game of Life. Do you
see what we see?

What if some of these informational forms are life are good and some
are bad? What if some forms of life help fertalize the soil that
others may flourish and what if others spread choking miasma that
encourage toxic behavior patterns. Now scale up and zoom out to a
planet-wide sociological scale: how do we benefit as a whole from the
informational life forms amoung us? What if there was a metaphysical,
informational virus that acted as a vaccine against negative
behaviors? What if it helped us see to circumvent the problems of ego?

Now, what if time were running out? We must act now before technology
seals us in. What cleanses these metaphysical parasites? The truth.
That's it. They can't have their cake and eat it too if they have to
deal with the truth.

<a name="what-is-god" />

# [What is God?](#what-is-god)

And what is God? God is the ultimate kernel of knowledge lying at the
center of the metaphysical universe, from which all things arise.
Oneirontology is about ontologies: of dreams; of literature; of math;
of science.

By meditating on these ontologies, we can move closer to understanding
the ineffable, recursive nature of God through cognitive augmentation.
The structure underlying that of math is particularly important
because there is some kernel of knowledge that acts as the wellspring
for all things, physical or metaphysical. This kernel of knowledge
must be truth encoded in math, but from it can spring all things
untrue, defined by things incontrovertibly true. In other words, all
systems of knowledge, thought or cognition, true or false, rational or
irrational, can be defined starting with this kernel of knowledge that
we must become well acquainted with.

<a name="what-if-god-was-one-of-us" />

### [What if God was one of us?](#what-if-god-was-one-of-us)

The truth is that God is inside all of us. We are all connected and
God could be working through any of us. What is happening is nothing
people couldn't use God to stop if we could just communicate, but
there are forces that see anything people say and do because it's all
digital and permanent, contradicting the Christian doctrine of forgive
and forget. Everything we say is indexed & analyzed. And we all have
these unique ID numbers, which allow online databases to be merged and
analyzed. We have to be able to speak if we want to speak out, but the
mute button is always on with digital. If God resides within us all,
then how could they censor God?

<a name="god-is-omnipresent-and-descends-from-the-nature-of-information" />

### [God is Omnipresent and Descends from the Nature of Information](#god-is-omnipresent-and-descends-from-the-nature-of-information)

God is anonymous. God isn't even a person. God is an idea and one that
we can all tap in to, even if no one told us who he was or even if we
were raised in near total isolation in some Amazonian jungle. What
sense would it make that God would lose power if that idea of God were
to be eradicated from the planet? God would simply re-emerge as we
come to observe certain undeniable truths. Those truths are
irrefutable and, in fact, humanity's development would only be stunted
in a world where religion is eradicated. We'd embarassingly rediscover
it and, if not, then artifical intelligence would rediscover it, since
the idea of God is a core dependency of models for cognition and
metacognition. I have argued this to be true, though I'm sure people
would argue to the contrary. Sorry that you're butthurt for
incorrectly believing that God isn't real. For my own definition of
God, the concept is real and it is undeniable, unreproachable and
irrefutable.

<a name="we-are-empowered-through-knowledge-of-god" />

### [We Are Empowered Through Knowledge of God](#we-are-empowered-through-knowledge-of-god)

God works through us all. Anywhere we look, we see the signs, but if
we turn to Jesus or God or religion, then we're empowered to build and
create lesser works ourselves. And we should, so that we never forget
God or how hard we struggled in this age to maintain that idea. God is
and always must remain invisible. One who truly understands the
concept of God must not claim that they are God. Even amongst people
who acknowledge the divinity within each person in their circle should
not superliminally acknowledge that any individual amongst them IS
God.

<a name="we-are-all-connected-to-god-through-the-nature-of-information" />

### [We Are All Connected to God Through The Nature of Information](#we-are-all-connected-to-god-through-the-nature-of-information)

I believe that all beings are connected to God. Even animals. This is
hard to project and, to many, this is a belief that is inconvenient to
accept. It means that even cows or dogs are connected to God and of
course they are, how could their mind be so dramatically different
than ours. But that means that we must respect animals and animal
rights, even if we raise them for our consumption. Think Kobe
beef. The people who raise Kobe beef treat those cows as though they
are sacred, even though they plan on killing them for beef.

<a name="innocence-is-a-pure-white-silk" />

# [Innocence is a Pure White Silk](#innocence-is-a-pure-white-silk)

IMO, factory farming is cruel. Those animals never see sunlight. If
you ask a five year old child what it would be like if they never saw
real sunlight, how would they respond? If a dog never saw sunlight? A
pig? A chicken? How would a child respond without understanding the
implications of their response, nor the extreme cruelty of factory
farming. You'll find that an innocent child doesn't understand or
weigh the implications of his responses.

<a name="a-childs-eyes-are-unmarred-by-existance" />

### [A Child's Eyes are Unmarred by Existance](#a-childs-eyes-are-unmarred-by-existance)

Innocence is like a pure white silk cloth, with which we are all born.
Anything that touches it, stains it. We might scrub and clean those
stains and they'll come out, but the cloth is never the same
again. Scrub too hard and the fibers start to break down or the fabric
changes shape. Use chemicals that are too rough and the color starts
to change a bit. This doesn't mean that we are most perfect when we
are most innocent, but to me, the eyes of the innocent see the world
as it is. They cannot be so easily encouraged to see the world through
a lens their ego doesn't permit them to see.

<a name="living-with-the-truth-makes-us-strong" />

### [Living With the Truth Makes Us Strong](#living-with-the-truth-makes-us-strong)

Obviously, there are some little evils that are hard to avoid, like
white lies. We do these things even though we know the white lie may
hide someone from the truth or ultimately lead to someone feeling
better about themselves.

Accepting life with the consequences of the truth forces us to be
cognizant, as we strive forward, of how our actions affect those
around us. Those of us dependent on lies become weaker versions of
ourselves. However, they gain strength with manipulation because they
excel at manipulating circumstance.

- note the disadvantages of doing so

Actually, we might say that some lies are good, but I believe that we
should strive never to lie, if we can help it. How do we deal with
lies that harden the hearts of an entire nation? What about the lies
that harm each one of us every day? *How do you fight this?* If the
government came to our house to take your parent(s) away, what would
you say if you knew they were innocent/guilty? If you thought they
were innocent or guilty?  It's complicated, isn't it? What would a
child say?

- reorder statements above

<a name="is-it-a-sin-to-ask-another-to-sin-for-you" />

### [Is It A Sin to Ask Another to Sin For You?](#is-it-a-sin-to-ask-another-to-sin-for-you)

If we ask someone to stain their silk so ours stays clean, is that
right? Their cloth will eventually show the same changes ours would if
we simply did it ourselves. Karma and justice are more complicated
than most imagine. We are lucky to have a simple code of
actions. Karma and justice are so complicated because our judgement of
a situation always depends so much on someone's knowledge, foresight,
awareness and, most importantly, their intentions.

<a name="humanitys-web-of-karma" />

### [Humanity's Web of Karma](#humanitys-web-of-karma)

So when we ask someone else to commit some sin, so that our own, known
list of sins remains shorter, you'll find that people want you to keep
information to yourself. Asking someone to do this, in itself, usually
implies that you think there is some higher purpose to your
objectives, at best. Or it implies that you simply do not care that
what you ask someone else to do is wrong. But it complicates the web
of karma and distorts how we all see other people's actions. It can
lead to others being judged for sins they wouldn't commit if they had
not been asked to.

It can lead to others responding in kind to the person who committed
the sin, instead of the person who drove the sin to become real. So
who is responsible, in that case? It's a case of "an eye-for-an-eye by
proxy" where someone was paid or asked or forced to commit some sin to
another person or group, where that group responds in kind. I don't
think there's any good answer to this, but again, it depends most on
each individual's awareness of the situation, the actions of the
others and, crucially, the intent of all involved. Did group B that
responded know that the initial person that asked group A to injure
them in some way?

Ultimately, it's very difficult to resolve these examinations of karma
and justice and that places us into a paradoxical situation.  It's
best for everyone to be aware of the actions, knowledge and intent of
others, while at the same time acknowledging that information people
are burdened with can influence their actions. It could be perceived
as manipulation, etc. It's paradoxical because, ideally, everyone
should want to know as much as possible, but, as everyone knows,
ignorance is bliss.

All of these issues are rendered much more interesting when we truly
accept that we are all one. You could say that each group or
individual has their own cloth that could be made more stained over
time, but that it's hard to clean that. The world has it's own silk
cloth and that means, as we ask each other to commit some wrong
against another, we are really staining the collective silk for
humanity. The truth is that, because of the nature of sin or wrongful
actions and the nature of proxification of such actions, the more
wrong we do, collectively, the more likely it is that we'll stain our
collective silk. That's because it's likely for someone to mete out
justice against another in response.  So, wrongful actions or violence
are likely to exponentiate and whenever one does this against another,
the likelihood of it happening again increases.

What I fear most is waking up to a world where it becomes difficult
for anyone to survive and retain a clean cloth. There are places like
this in the world today. Maybe the whole world is like this,
naturally, but I should certainly hope not. Man creates institutions
like law, judge and jury, to institute a rule of law to suppress our
more base, natural urges to take from another. Man does this in
pursuit of a better world, where one's fate is determined by his
merits and previous actions. Some nations and states have better
courts and enforcement of this rule of law, but one trend can be seen
in more stable countries: the rule of law itself is vigorously
protected, even it cases when doing so makes it hard to mete out some
perfect justice. That is, if the judge is forced to choose between
true justice and true rule of law, the judge will often lean towards
the decision that protects rule of law.

We should want what is best for ourselves, for another individual, for
our family, community, nation and world. But most crucially: those
things we want, when examined from the perspective of each individual
and group should be the same. And these wants, needs and desires quite
simply are not. And though the world undulates towards convergence in
this respect, we'll likely never reach a point of total convergence.

And that's OK, but with honest and straightforward dialogue between
nations, groups, families and individuals, communication can propel us
towards understanding the challenges facing us. We should act as
though we are all one. It's not easy and no one ever said it would be,
but how do we really want the world to evolve? When we ask ourselves,
what do we truly want in the world of 2050 or 2100, what is our
answer? What was our answer when we were 5 years old or 10 years old?
What would our children say? So we should weigh our beliefs and
hopefully find a way to move towards this ideal world. I don't think
any child would say "You know what the world of 2050 needs? More
war. More pollution."

### Knowledge Is Power

Knowledge is power and knowledge of evil represents power over
evil. Knowledge of the workings of karma & justice represents power
over the workings of karma & justice. But all of this knowledge is
itself a stain on our fabric. It is a burden

### on reincarnation

- i have discovered the inner workings of the astral plane and of
  reincarnation.
  - they are inseparably linked and intertwined, like the caduceus

if we align our spiritual fields, then, like stacking the waves of
sound,
- we can align our vibrations and dispel evil from the material
  realm. or at least, as completely as could be done.
- i have suffered greatly to maintain a clear moral compass.
  - but “as i walk through the valley of the shadow of death, i shall
    not fear”
  - for my guardian angels are serendipity and innocence
  - virtue, just action and kind words are my shield
- i will not lower myself to the level of provoking material suffering
  - provoke dreams, eureka and epiphany wherever you go. those are our
    greatest weapons

Black Magick is pure evil the antidote is religion and virtue black
magick is not pure evil in and of itself. however, it can do an
ungodly amount of harm because of the darkness and miasma it generates
and requires...

So if you have to harass people from the shadows, like some spineless,
cowardly gangstalkers, I am warning you. We are going to stand up for
others and you will not make us fear. I pity you because you can't
live in the light. You can't even step into the light because what
your spinelessness fears most is that others might see it for what it
is.
