---
title: "Merits and Faults of Intellectual Property Endgame Scenarios"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- link to
  [American Limits on Freedom of Speech Include Intelligence](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-08-22-american-limits-on-freedom-of-speech-include-intelligence.html)
  - where to link to this?

- need to explore more about the merits/faults of final distributions
  of intellectual property holdings.
  - this is the interesting idea here, but

In the years preceeding 2017, what our government seems to have
mercilessly squashed in America is curiosity and innovation driven by
a lust for knowledge and self-actualization.

- That is, unless you found
  yourself blessed by the government to proceed with some innovative
  idea without a COINTELPRO-style disruption campaign, powered by
  surveillance.
  - (blurb about unquestioning obedience, self-censorship, complicitness
    with NSA surveillance, etc)
- If you're the target of such an operation involving surveillance,
  you'd be lucky to avoid having every ounce of innovation extracted
  by the people watching you.
- Apparently, our government has been pruning undesireable
  entrepreneurs and micromanaging technological innovation, but to
  what ends? Is it to ensure that liberals and leftists are in control
  of new money? Ethics aside, that would be an effective tactic from a
  heartlessly utilitarian standpoint. It'd be effective unless you got
  caught doing it, of course.
  - (remove) If Tat and I actually talked, I have memories about this
    exact topic, which I suggested as a kind of ethical test.
    - I told her ensuring control/oversight over innovation of Silicon
      Valley would be an effective means of ensuring your side has
      more resources later, essentially.
    - I was trying to test my hypothesis: was the left methodically
      pushing conservatives out of work and depriving them of
      resources. This is basically what was happening with the IRS and
      Lois Lerner and what I had felt happened in my own life.
    - yeh, it's chicanery. who the fuck cares. look at what these
      people were doing. i wanted to prove it without a doubt, in case
      I was in the middle of getting fucked in the ass.

... (fix transition) And if so, then what are we doing to our economy
as we step foot into a 21st century!?  (I) cannot appropriately
emphasize how the 21st century economy will be based on intellectual
property and that, while it might be unfair for a segment of the
global economy to have an insurmountable advantage there, I'd rather
it be us if it's going to be anyone. That's because I know that
someone truly worthy of being a steward of IP like that would be
willing to share it with all others instead of using it to their own
advantage. While I trust some groups in the Western world with such
responsibility, I'm not so sure that some groups in the global economy
would execute that duty altruistically.

### [What Makes a Good Steward of Future Intellectual Property Holdings?](#what-makes-a-good-steward-of-future-intellectual-property-holdings)

And its not a joke: we're getting close to a world that might be
controlled by esoteric groups of corporate conglomerates who act as
gatekeepers of intellectual property for specific industries, where it
would be impossible to advance in some technology without their
blessing. Depending on how they leverage influence like that, such a
world could be better off for it or certainly doomed, were greedy
self-interest to delude whoever holds the keys to genomic science or
nano science.

This isn't actually a novel idea. Nope, it's a *novel* idea!
Literally. As in William Gibson's brilliant Neuromancer -- one of the
best books I've ever read whence the Matrix was a major departure --
the Tessier-Ashpool family maintains a monopoly over intellectual
property related to artifical intelligence. I don't think I'm throwing
out spoilers here. This family has mostly withdrawn from society and
their duty is an unwavering, merciless suppression of any possibility
rogue AI tech might emerge and take root in the world. That's a
nightmare scenerio in many sci-fi books.

This family runs the "Turing Registry" which has it's own secret
police, kinda. Think Rothschilds, but for AI instead of banking. In
this world, if you ever came close to someone connected to the
Tessier-Ashpools, it's either because you're very fortunate and
well-respected or because you should disappear without telling anyone
and spend the rest of your life in a secret underground bunker, amidst
isolated seclusion. They just don't play and, my memory fails me
because I read Neuromancer three years ago and I have an overactive
imagination, but they're not exactly evil for it. They don't care if
you didn't mean to and it ain't personal, but it gets personal. This
family of characters simply does not want the wrong things to happen
with regard to AI & if you get close to that, they'll find you. Like
Hollywood.  Don't worry, don't call us, we'll call you. The end.

<a name="" />

### [Weighing Pros and Cons of IP Distribution Endgame Scenarios](#weighing-pros-and-cons-of-ip-distribution-endgame-scenarios)

It's very possible that similar families or multinational holdings
companies might emerge to run things in the pre-Singularity economy of
the 21st century. They would manage equity and intellectual property
with regard to specific companies. This is actually the endgame for
the global economy, barring civilizational collapse or a breakdown of
international agreements. The seeds of this trend can be seen in
holdings companies today for patents, *some* of whom you might call
patent trolls.

There is some set of companies that own and license a ton of patents
out there. These companies and their holdings represent a distribution
of IP. There are some distributions of IP which would be very
beneficial or very detrimental for the welfare of the common person,
for safety in regard to technological evolution, for equitable "fair"
economic scenarios, etc. One needs to consider the present state of
the system, including who owns what, along with the technological
innovations which are likely to happen, the codification of those
innovations into patents, the changing value of past/present/future
patents, as well as future changes in the system. So this global
economic system can evolve towards one which is fair and beneficial or
one where greed and lust for power overtake such fragile notions of
peace and equitable prosperity.

<a name="so-youre-telling-me" />

### [So, You're Telling Me...](#so-youre-telling-me)

TODO: 3rd world meme

So when people say "Oh he's just full of excuses and never built
anything himself" or "He's not really that smart/intelligent" or "He
thinks he knows how to run a company, but he has no idea what he's
doing" or "He'll never amount to anything" ... For those detractors, I
definitely accept that many of your critiques contain more truth than
I'd like. If you're statement is true, thank you for your criticism. I
hope you mention it to me, instead of just others. If the intent of
your criticism is positive, again, thank you. I'd love to hear what
you have to say. How am I supposed to progress if I don't get
feedback. However, if your intent is negative or you're just trying to
psyche me out, then please go fuck yourself. Keep in mind that I
didn't get an education and the government has a unathorized budget
with my name on it. And, in spite of that, I managed to not succumb to
their projected delusion, constant gaslighting, subversion/coercion of
my friends and family, or their constant distractions. In spite of all
that, I never gave up on myself or stopped believing in myself.

I have a lot to learn and maybe I'll never experience victory, but why
would these people ever prevent me from attempting business or
science, unless ... could it be that they are terrified of any
success? **I just discussed personal ideas on the endgame of the
distribution of intellectual property in the 21st economy.** Who the
fuck says that?! Who thinks about that?

Furthermore, my intentions were always positive. If my intentions
weren't positive, would I have ever thought about how alternate
distributions of intellectual property might impact mankind? Nope. I
would be much busier making money, counting money, thinking about how
to make more money or trying to figure out how to spend it. I only
wanted wealth because I saw it as a way and means to empower real
change for the benefit of others. Not just myself. Though I can't lie,
I did like the idea of fondue parties, champagne, yachts, private
islands and disposable helicopters.  Actually, today, all of that
materialistic stuff represents a waste of thought, time and energy. I
don't want it.
