---
title: "Metamodernism, Retromodernism and the Hipsters Guarding our Wellspings"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

So, I'm an aesthitician. Sometimes I do nails and sometimes I do hair,
but mostly I do art. Everyone has their interpretation of art, but do
some of us have more acuity for seeing the beauty in art? If beauty is
in the eye of the beholder, how do we develop that ability to see it?
Is such beauty inherint in anything? If so, are there things better
left unseen? What determines what our mind decides to focus on?

If the conscious layer of the mind is like the surface of water and
thoughts are like the bubbles the subconscious allows to rise to the
surface, then what determines what arises fully to the conscious
layer? This is just as important to the beholder as it is the artist,
but the artist develops an awareness of how the beholder will see
their work. Much of what lies in our subconscious isn't worth thinking
about, but the best artists seem to be able to swim in the depths of
their subconscious, retrieving jewels not shaped or constrained by
effable thought. How does one tap into that?

### (Retromodernism)

Once technology has eliminated the constraints to artistic medium, it
seems the near future might present us with an artistic movement that
reenvisions and recombinates alternate progressions of technology in
search of alternate mediums and formats, which might have been
popular, in some alternate timeline or formulation of reality. What
would art look like if industrialization emerged from India or
elsewhere in the 18th century, finally spreading modernization to
Europe? If modernization emerged and converged in some way that
changed the order and regions in which technologies became available,
how would that have changed the qualities of artistic mediums? E.G. if
photoshop was available before and without radio, how would that
affect the nature of print medium? The progression of art, mediums and
techniques surely would shape it's prevelance and evolution, so what
if that were different in some way? How would we think about the past
today if some seemingly trivial aspects differed slightly?

We may see an resurgance in interest in revisiting the 19th and
especially 20th century tech and ideas to find hidden gems, rare art
and recombinant forms of such. We already see this in steampunk and
elsewhere, but for the purposes of this article, I'll refer to it as
retromodernism. I apologize for inventing a word. While awareness of
differentiation and quality of ideas is important, I'm not fond of
arbitrary division and distinction between ideas, so who am I to
create another? And really ... who am I to try to define a concept
such retromodernism?

Much of the art produced to reflect this idea would be encumbered by
stilted constraints imposed by the artist, but if some retromodernism
formulations seem natural enough to avoid lengthy explanation, we'd
see some very interesting art indeed. Further, this would help us
understand the general nature of alternate progressions of technology
in the near future, as we approach the Singularity.

### The Best Artists Fly Under the Radar

Many artists remained unknown until their death, never tasting the
fruits of success, recognition or fame. Van Gogh is a great
example. Is this necessary to their faculties of vision and reflection
as an artist? In many ways, it does reinforce this. It's ironic that
success and fame might alter the potential of an artist, but it
clearly has time and time again. Without awareness, it distorts the
way they see things and grants them things which deprive them of the
challenges that helped them originally develop their ability and
vision.

Success and fame cause us to become attached to them. We fear
their loss and then choose to don restrictive social norms and
conventions, which begins to couple us to those things which we
originally distinguished ourselves from. IMO, it is what is unique
which is beautiful and intriguing. When art makes us think, that
forces us to invest time and energy in understanding it, which fosters
appreciation for that work. An artist constrained by society will
produce works that reflect that. Whether it's a painting or novel or
film or video game, art that isn't distinguishable doesn't seem to
require as much thought for us to understand.

In many ways art represents the frontiers of inner space. Artists are
like astronauts who explore their own subconscious depths as well as
the expanse of cultural artifacts and ideas. The rich and powerful
defend the status quo because it makes them comfortable. They also buy
art. You aren't going to sell much art if you're trying to sell it at
a shelther for the homeless. Art expands how we think and the most
popular art forms the edge of things we think about. Still, art and
truth have a tendency to slip out and have a powerful effect on how
people think. This changes the status quo. And so, the progression of
art is influenced by the idiosyncrasies in the market for art, whether
it's visual art, corporate art, literary or cinematic art.

### Oh Snap! We Got A Smart One Over Here!

The best artists fly under the radar!! Quite often, they have to
shield their true understanding of the world around them because they
can be serious threats to those in power! That doesn't mean there are
men in black out there snuffing starving artists. Instead, you'll find
that the rich and powerful will tend to redirect your energy through
allures of money and positions of influence. As someone who's
struggling, it's hard for the artist and author to resist, but not
everyone is Mozart. Those who have considerable influence and way too
much of other people's time on their hands want to identify these
people early on.

> It is not the rich man you should properly call happy, but him who
> knows how to use with wisdom the blessings of the gods, to endure
> hard poverty, and who fears dishonor worse than death, and is not
> afraid to die for cherished friends or fatherland.

The artists who are just lucky and don't fully understand their
work won't feel as commited to forego selling out to protect the
authenticity of their work. But the true genius will endure hard
poverty for his work because he believes his message is worth the
effort. This is true of many other facets of life. Great parents may
forsake opportunities or distractions to ensure they devote themselves
fully to their family because they embody a belief that nothing is
more important than their family. So they instead seek humility and
stability. Raising a family isn't easy, so I don't mean to cast
judgement on anyone.

Let me apologize in advance for the impending conspiratorial
statements. The point is -- if you are an artist or philosopher who's
ideas threaten the status quo, you'll find yourself on a relevatory
path of suffering for truth, assaulted on all sides by distractions,
frenemies poisoned against you and outright malevalent forces.

#### Oh Hey, Look! It's Mara! Do You Think She'd Like Some Tea?

![Buddha and Mara](/img/posts/metamodernism-and-the-hipster-cycle-of-art/mara.jpg)

If you make it too far, but refuse to give in, there may be powerful
forces who seek to get you off that path by any means necessary. It is
most effective to do so by offering you a career opportunity and
essentially buying you off, but really they want to keep you busy and
keep you close, while appearing to be your friend. They don't seek to
become overt enemies and "they" aren't exactly evil, cigar-smoking,
men in suits. But beware, if you are a true threat in any big way, the
people on the top of that pyramid of power do not play nice. You will
not know what hit you. Usually, they start with a metaphorical
gift-basket though. Hey, look! Wine and chocalates! If you're lucky,
you'll have some mimosas. Perhaps some brunch and coffee.

The very best artists know that they'll be presented with an assault
of enticing distractions. They are well aware that great art is
mystifying. Moreover, they have the capacity to develop a unique
vision or message, but they are familiar enough with it and other
ideas to understand that their ideas may be dangerous. For example,
not to say I'm an example of this class of UG Artist, but I know that
I can't post my blogs on Reddit or my account will be deleted. The
[/r/philosophy](https://r/philosophy) and
[/r/askphilosophy](https://reddit.com/r/askphilosophy) mods told me
so. Yep, I can't even "AskPhilosophy" bro!

This class of artist realizes that (1) the conventional critic or
consumer isn't going to understand and (2) if someone doesn't
understand, it may ultimately threaten the artist's quest for truth
and realization of vision. Thus, to this end and in pursuit of
mystification, the great artist learns to encode their work with a
vaporous shroud of enigma. In this way, if the art truly merits
criticism and study, then those who meditate on the piece long enough
may unlock the truth.

Sidenote: I wish I could do this with my own work, but I'm plagued by
the sensation that I'm running out of time, which is a blessing and a
curse. It doesn't help much when the people around me don't seem to
care about my pursuits, writing or business. Also, I think it's
interesting to expose my drafts on Github, as it exposes the thinking
and writing process a bit. Typically, showing others unfinished work
is a major mistake, but in my case, SOMETHING IS BETTER THAN NOTHING
AND I HAVE ALOT TO OFFER! If I upload drafts of my work early on, then
no one can steal my work while I'm in the process of writing with no
means to sustain my work and constantly assaulted by efforts to
distract me from ever becoming anything or ever accumulating a
legacy. I'd prefer not to vanish without a trace...

So, the great artist knows they might have to suffer for their work
and they are more than willing to do so, not out of a sense that doing
so might mean they become more successful, but because it is
worthwhile. If the great artist had acuity for great art and thought
there wasn't much value to their own work, they wouldn't be so eager
to expend energy and endure hardship to pursue their work. On the
other hand, they know that excessive success may change them or draw
too much attention to early work, possibly forcing them to abstain
from expressing ideas that threaten the status quo. It's de facto
censorship. If you're too attached to wealth or fame, you'll censor
yourself. If the great artist knows this and purposefully flies under
the radar, then it gives him or her more time to produce more work,
hoping it will be discovered later. Or perhaps the artist isn't
attached to whether or not the work will become widely known after
their death.

As for me, I finally recognized that I had great ideas and just how
different they were. By the time I did, I had already sought to
suppress expression of everything I knew because I feared that hidden
elements in the world would lash back at me. However, the world seems
to have done just that and I when I began publishing, I never got a
bigger rise out of people who wanted to shut me up. I'm not sure why,
since I was writing treatises on the humanities: linguistics,
philosophy, psychology and sociology. Maybe I got too close to some
esoteric topics. Still, getting this mostly insinuated and passive
aggressive reaction was as close as I came to satisfaction from a
project and it was more accesible than apps and programming libs.

I uploaded my drafts recently and now my updates are posted to cloud
prematurely to ensure that I don't end up vanishing without a trace or
legacy. Over the past decade, I might have been naive, boisterous, and
ironically undereducated, but I learned a lot and while it seems that
I produced little to nothing, I have spent so much time thinking and
philosophizing. I've felt deprived of opportunities and perhaps
tormented by a handful of people, which forced me into isolation,
where I quietly build out magnificent edifaces in my mind. I don't
want to be so attached to what I've created, but I've ..

###

The tendency and perhaps necessity for great artists to remain unseen
implies that there should be much undiscovered art. Somewhere out in
that wide world, there lies a vast, hipster paradise, a veritable
elephant graveyard where starving artists go to die in peace as
stubborn, but joyful paupers. So, as technology expands our ability to
create, while inevitably diminishing the space of the uncreated, we
may become more interested in finding those pieces otherwise buried
beneath the deafening roar of industrialization and consumerism.

So, the best artists have the technical capability to hide their true
vision. They have the acuity to develop a vision in the first place.
And some of these people may have understood that, to truly push out
their ideas, they may have needed to hide them in plain sight, within
their work. Therefore, they must also understand how to encode these
kinds of symbols and messages.

  - and, most of all, the person capable of those things above, they
    are usually capable of success. fame & fortune will tempt them. it
    tempted me, but i had experienced so much pain in my life, i
    wasn't willing to allow myself to be "nerfed" or bought out.
    - I SUFFERED FOR TRUTH. I DIDN'T SUFFER TO BECOME A MOCKERY OF THE
      THINGS I SUFFERED FOR!
  - ... anyways, these artists, the one's you're looking for, they
    have to have the ability to obtain fame/fortune, but look past
    it.

Quite simply, the best artists value the truth and authenticity of
their art more than anything else in the world!

### technical prowess of artists compared to popularity

Here are some observations on music and art that may lead to
interesting insights. Some music, art and artforms need to stay
underground. Even if it wasn't made for mainstream appeal, it loses
something if it becomes mainstream. Art and music risk losing some
truth or aspect of themselves, once they extend beyond a circle of
people who truly understand it.

- music which can only be fully enjoyed by those with the right
  headphones is less marketable. there are lots of songs out there,
  for which you can only truly experience what the artist intended if
  you have a high quality headphones
  - this makes it inherently less marketable
  - yet, at the same time, more artistic. if you're an artist and
    you're making music with this in mind, then by embracing your
    artform (creative, hard-to-pick-up music production techniques),
    then you have to accept that you're probably not going to be
    successful, since it's less marketable.

### The best artists must choose b/w success and art

- in other words, sometimes the more proficient artists
  necessarily must choose between success and art.
  - therefore (& quite often) mainstream success is at odds with
    artistic expression. this doesn't mean that mainstream artists
    aren't good artists.
- however, this implies that, over the 20th and 21st century, there
  should be plenty of artists or artforms which completely avoided
  mainstream notice.
  - artforms based on transient technology should be especially
    interesting. that is those artforms based on tech that was only
    around for a few years or perhaps in some alternate universe

### Felling on Deaf Ears

- (recap) there are so many audio engineering techniques that would be lost on
  those not listening with a critical ear.
  - to the same point, there are many creative techniques that enrich
    audio or visual art that are totally lost to most, except
    trained/experienced critics
- therefore, in terms of becoming popular or achieving mainstream
  success, none of those techniques are going to help you sell art,
  but they require more effort: orders of magnitude more work
  - and truly, the best artists produce work that's like an
    onion. every time you experience you peel away what turns out to
    be the surface of some amazing new layer you hadn't imagined
- and so, the best art is necessarily underground and there's a group
  of "hipster" critics who pride themselves on understanding those
  sensory delicacies most often lost.
  - these critics share their tastes with their friends and as they
    do, that art grows slightly in popularity.
    - and so does the general appreciation of what makes that art
      "good" that can be recognized by listeners/people
    - the selection of underground artforms & symbols recognized by
      someone forms a kind of map that can speak volumes on who they
      are. (esotericism) this applies especially when they are unaware
      of the significance of some symbols

### Hipsters Drink from the Wellsprings of Art & Culture

- anyways, when critics recognize underground art for some
  minor qualities the remain missed by others, and then spread that
  art & appreciation of its qualities to others, this forms a kind of
  cycle.
  - there's a wellspring of creativity at the center, surrounded by
    hipsters and master artists.
    - these "wellspring" have an intense effect on the evolution of
      art. again, the evolution of art and music is an incredbily
      powerful thing to control or influence.
    - there are unseen forces that guard these wellsprings of
      creativity, art and culture. to either control them for profit
      or to protect them from tainted influence or ....
- and from these wellsprings, artistic influence gradually spreads
  outward to the mainstream consumers whos capacity 4
  recognizing/appreciating "good" art expands.
  - to truly appreciate art, one needs to capacity to understand and
    they need to activate it.
  - the significance/meaning of art is often encoded into the art in
    such a way whereby the significance of symbols related to the
    production of the art is important to understanding the true
    meaning of it.
    - this is because artists are most familiar with their tools.
    - since these are the languages of symbols they understand most,
      they provide the semiotic basis of "second language" for that
      artist
    - therefore, it's crucial to understand the production of art and
      the techniques involved if you hope to understand an artist's
      work

### On Art, Knowledge and Directive Cognitive Expansion

- (see article "Directive Cognitive Expansion")
  - (also, see "Consciousness is a Continuum" article)
    - this briefly discusses the importance of semiotics in expanding
      consciousness and developing our ability to abstract ideas
  - so, if the degree of consciousness is measured by the expanse of
    symbols a being can communicate with, both recgonizing and using,
    and the degree to which they can express themselves and the
    subtlety of situations...
    - then it should stand to reason that our most learned citizens
      are the most conscious and the best artists must be those of us
      who are highly educated and retain a varied expanse of
      experiences.
