---
title: "National Security Post"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

national security post:

One of the things you might find about national security is that there
are things people don't want you to mention. They just don't want
people to know and they've built this thing so that we don't have to
know. It's not that they're terrible things, but they're secret for a
reason. The people who built and expanded the Department of Defense and
our intelligence agencies since the end of World War II did it for a
very good reason. We wanted American and Western hegemony to last
because we've created a world that fosters peace through strength.

The world isn't exactly a friendly place. There are extremists who,
given a chance, would spread their filth across the world, regardless
of how ignorant they are of the fact it would put the world in a very
bad spot. These people don't understand overpopulation, exponential
growth or how to manage a nation. They only know what makes them angry
and what they can use to motivate others to fight.

A lot of people accuse us of interfering and doing things that are a
bit messed up. You're damn right we do (occasionally) and we do it
because it is justified. If you think we're guilty of something
horribly wrong, well you probably heard half the story & we're not
going to tell you the rest because it's a fucking national security
issue.

I was one of those people who heard half of the story. No, not our
half, the *other half*. It happened in college. Now, it's been about a
decade since then and I gotta tell you: that half of the story is
horse shit. And the people we've been fighting across the world since
2001? How do you think they're fighting us? Do you think they're doing
it with guns? Well ... yes, but most of those people, if they really
knew what was going on, would either not pick up guns or they'd turn
them against the Taliban or whoever it is. If they realized the
bullshit these assholes spread to encourage their own people to fight,
almost all of them would not fight.

And so, yes, we are fighting these wars with guns. But truly, we are
fighting a war with information. And every war since the damn of time
has been that way. If people didn't want to fight, would they? Hell
no! People don't fight because they just want to. They fight because
they believe they're fighting for something more important than their
own lives. So how do we stop this violence? We figure out how to get
these people to turn against those pissants like the Taliban who are
stirring up problems in their own countries and then blaming them on
us!

And, right there at the top of the article, what did I tell you to
fucking read? THE GOD!@#$ ART OF WAR. Did you read it yet? Why not?
Fucking read that book! Read it, right now, so you will stop calling
me a God!@#$ racist. And then we can all move on and do important
things.

Because I'm telling you, *THE BIGGEST MISTAKE* in war is fighting a
war, where you don't have the support of the people. It's pointless;
it's stupid; it's ineffective; you are going to lose, either today or
tomorrow! And because of all that, *IT IS IMMORAL!* The morality of
war is questionable in the first place and we should hope we never
have to fight.

But we should also KNOW: if we do have to ask our sons and daughters
to die for us, that we go to war, we do not fuck around, our people
support our troops in word and action and WE FUCKING WIN THAT
SHIT. Then we transfer power to people who can handle it, if it's that
kind of war. And when we fight a war, it damn well better be
justified. We better have a clear purpose and a easily relatable
story. That story better be heroic. Because if it is that kind of war,
where we have to transfer power, we better be able to do it in a way
where those people are truthfully, honestly and persicuously grateful
that we would risk our sons and daughters for their liberty.

And you know what? We would! We did! We do it all the fucking time!
And are there also benefits that the United States has derived from
going to war? Yes, there are. One is commonly cited as oil. Is oil the
reason we went to Iraq? HELL NO! We went to war because it was a
global security threat for Saddam Hussein to dick around with weapons
of mass destruction. No, we didn't find anything. Apparently. I'm not
sure I believe that he was doing nothing. Yeh, I know. We uncovered
evidence to the contrary that shows that someone made something up. I
don't know the details.

All I know is that we went to that country, where American and Iraqi
boys and girls died in a bloody war, so that Iraq might have free
access to information and education and a better life. And we hung
that tyrant.

And so, did I support the war originally? No. Would I have supported
it, given what I know now about life and the world? Possibly. I would
have asked more questions. I would have asked better questions.

And you know what those fucking pissants do? The leaders of opposition
stir up resentment and hatred towards Americans. They lie to their
people. Why? So they will pick up guns and shoot at us and their own
people who support us.

And, can I ask one good question real quick? Those Syrian refugees
streaming into Europe: I can understand the general desire of people
to flee a warzone. However, right now, they have the chance to bond
together and fight a civil war to take back their country. They might
not get another chance like that. And they want the US to come in and
fight their war for them? You people are fleeing to come here, but
we're supposed to go there? Nope. You guys need to stay right where
you are (except people who need to flee) and y'all need to fucking
take control of your own damn country.

Maybe I misunderstand the situation here, but it seems like ISIL is
directing the populous who will fight to fight for the wrong
thing. And they're doing so because they have the trust of their
people and they control the dissemination of information in that
region that, for whatever reason, is trusted. They're down there
cutting heads off. Just cutting everyone's head off. It could be you,
your little brother, your mama, your father. It doesn't matter.
They're going to cut your head off. Why is it that people trust ISIL?
And not Western forces? No matter how justified it is, we aren't going
to win any war where, for whatever reason, people would rather trust
the people who are cuttin people everybody's heads off. That's
bullshit. Before we set foot in that country -- if we did -- we have
to solve that problem.

In fact: that is the only problem worth solving. And if we did, than
we might not have to fight very many wars at all. Because people would
realize that they wanted something better than eternal warfare. They
would want education. They would want industry. They would want
trade. They would want to distribute wealth. They would want a middle
class. And I know that if you framed these discussions in the right
way, when people have access to information and when people have
access to alternatives, they wouldn't want to fight. They would want
to prosper. They would move to the suburbs, if they could. Because
that is exactly what these Syrian refugees are doing! They are voting
with their citizenship. They are saying *FUCK THAT!* I'm tired of
all this shit. I'm moving somewhere where I can raise my family to
achieve something better than to grow into a man or woman of seventeen
years who gets shot or gets their GOD!@#$ head cut off.

So yeh, I'm mad about it. And so is everyone else. Because the world
can see it for what it is. Your citizens might not be able to, but we
can. And this happens all over the world. Qaddafi wouldn't let his
people learn foreign languages! What the fuck?!

And yes, these situations are more complicated than how I have just
stated them. Yes, there are foreign policy decisions all over the
world that drive tensions between nations. These are delicate
situations and people get PhD's for studying these issues. I can't
hope to resolve them in a blog.

And so, I want to work for a world where we can find peace, however
that peace might be, however that peace might come into being. I want
to work for it. We have been willing to send our sons and daughters
over there to die for it, so these aren't just empty words. We have
put skin in the game.

But, truly, there is no war -- there is no such thing as a war, except
the war for your heart and for your mind. And when someone wins a
battle for your heart and mind, they have won dominance over your
actions. Only then could they ever convince you that you should risk
your life, your fatherhood, or your motherhood to pick up a weapon.

And goddamn it! Why? The people who are leading this shit in
Afganistan, for example. The Taliban. They are now stirring up shit
between Afganistan, Pakistan and the United States. This is the kind
of shit I'm talking about. Those pissants don't give a fuck about
their own people because they use human shields, knowing that if they
die at a wedding amoung dozens of innocents, they are OK with that, if
it only encourages a hundred people to pick up guns.

They are fighting a war for your heart and your mind and those are the
Taliban's tactics. I hate that shit. I detest that crap! Using people
as human shields. Damning their countrymen to eternal conflict? I know
there are major differences between the cultures of America and
Afganistan. But there is opportunity for industry and stability
there. And these guys are fucking it up for you! What about roads and
infrastructure, for commerce? What about education? Yet, their most
urgent concern is blowing the faces off a couple of giant
statues. Mostly for the publicity, I guess.

Way to go guys. We have fireworks, too. At the store. We just get on
our roads and go to walmart and we get some hot dogs while where at it
because we're going to a cookout. And we're going to light off some
fireworks and nobody's gonna get their fucking face blown off. And
then we'll do it again next year. Same place, same time for 200
fucking years.

You know why? Because our society is built to last. And we don't stir
up violent behavior to game our own citizens for power. Here's an
idea: why don't we just rope off Waziristan. You guys can have it, if
Pakistan is cool with it. Nobody comes and goes. We'll be watching.
And then, we're going to have a competition. It's going to be a
quality of life competition.

I've never been there, so I might be a bit ignorant with regard to
their transportation system. I've seen pictures & that's about
it. Anyway, we're going to help people build roads for commerce. I
don't know their current state, but what I do know is that roads help
business, business and education build an economy, economy and
education promote stability, and stability leads to higher quality of
life. And who do you think's going to win that?

And you know what we're going to do? We're going to build standup
comedy clubs in every single city of over 200,000. And then we're
going to build a Wall of Sound around Waziristan, and we're going to
blast that standup content throughout that region. And we're going to
mic the audience, so you can hear everytime a fifteen year-old laughs. And
you know what? That kid -- he's almost a man -- and he doesn't know
what an AK looks like!

That fifteen year old kid? You know what his biggest problem is? His
mom won't buy him an XBox with Call of Duty. And you know why?
Because he still doesn't know what a fucking AK-47 looks like and she
doesn't want to ruin that shit.

And we're going to blast that sound of contentment, stability and
happiness into your country, so you have to suffer knowing how happy
everyone else is. There's a difference in laughter that's innocent and
the kind of laughter that's a bit darker and we're going to make sure
you know what that sounds like. And you can sit there and shoot your
AK's until they break to pieces. We're going to do it until you don't
have a single bullet left to shoot because there ain't another country
in the world that is going to stand for that kind of pissant behavior.

We're not really going to do all that, with the standup clubs... but
you bet your ass that we're going to help Afganistan become a stable
country with an economy and roads with lots of onramps and offramps.
So you can sell lots of stuff and build an economy. We gotta fix some
stuff at home and that comes first.

We must move past this kind of world. We can't do this
anymore. Overpopulation is going to strain relations between
countries. Drained resources and rising prices are going to fracture
economies, if they aren't robust. (a bit more on how overpopulation is
actually what's driving conflict and how it's just going to get worse)

- need to tie nat'l security back to some other ish
  - link from immigration article & fractured-families
