
it's funny that those who, in with some bizarre zealous conviction to
stand up for others who are repressed by label and prejudice, would be
so eager to label others for judgement. this is especially ironic when
the people slapping labels with prejudice and without honest
straightforward tactics, don't even have a label themselves. This
include those situations work when the white guy with a buzzcut and no
labels based on skin color or ethnicity decides to inform everyone
else that there's a shit-eating racist right there at work, without
ever giving that person a chance to defend themselves. In fact, their
behavior on the subject implies they KNEW what they were doing was
WRONG and that their indications on the subject were FALSE because
they NEVER discussed it openly, actively sought to hide it and
minimized your chances to respond.

And for me? I have aspergers. I already have one of those conditions
which end up giving someone a label. I have always been a bit gullible
and I've always been a person who misunderstands social situations and
I HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS WITHOUT HAVING TO DEAL WITH THOSE INTRODUCED
ARTIFICIALLY BY "OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE" ... wtf do you call one of
those yesmen anyways? These people abused a sensitive issue to leave
me isolated and stranded against a person who, for his entire life,
had been isolated out of a lack of social development. Furthermore,
these people were TRAINED to induce such a state of protracted
ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT in me through the ABUSE of PSYCHOLOGY! What they
did to me was sick and to say that they did not understand the
consequences is a flat out lie.

=============

on being labelled racist:

yeh i was labelled racist in 2010ish for political purposes, by the
government. and earlier than that in my personal life, mostly for
being libertarian. it's like a convenient tattoo they slap on your
forehead. it's really messt up. they will go around your back and
spread that label around, lying and deceiving thousands of times. but
me?

in 2013, i led someone on with vague insinuation about maybe possibly
being racist ONE TIME when I suspected being on a microphone AND THE
WHOLE WORLD FUCKING BURNS DOWN.

somehow, someone told her that i was a racist piece of shit (a
conservative GASP!!) and the next day, i could see it in her
eyes. someone had meticulously deceived her. They ruined a decent
first impression for me and tried to ruin the best thing that had ever
happened to me. So, ironically, i fought back by leading her further
down the road whenever she was asking questions to verify whether the
label someone told her about was true, but in a way where, on the
surface, i clearly stated that I WAS NOT A RACIST. basically, because
i suspected being on a microphone, I was kind of hoping it'd lead to a
witch hunt, just for the opportunity to get as many people as possible
to put my life under a microscope. I wanted everyone to see me for how
I truly was and it's amazing to understand how people can delude
themselves with the utmost of righteous conviction, in spite of a
deluge of information available to the public about someone.

i wanted to trigger a witch hunt from hollywood because i've been
unfairly persecuted for my entire adult life on the accusation that I
AM MY OWN ANTITHESIS, without any chance to respond to false labels!!!
the racist label, among other things, has been used by workplace
bullies (occupational medicine specialists) to isolate me and leave me
broken, jobless, homeless and starving. how would other people feel if
they had suffered so much through life, being judged for things which
they are not and NOT ONCE GIVEN A CHANCE TO DEFEND THEMSELVES?!!

=============

shitdick ninjas snippet

Unfortunately, I don't seem to get the chance to make a first
impression. Almost ever. It's frustrating, but unless I move to a new
city on my own, I don't run into people who don't already have an idea
of who I am. I hate it.

Oh, it'd be great if these people were seeded with a good impression,
but it's hardly ever that. It's been better lately, but it's tough to
dispell that kind of preconceived notion because you have neither the
opportunity to address whatever words/actions created it nor whoever
propagated it. I've found that people who were neutral with regard to
me have unintentionally/indirectly propagated negative memes. It feels
like I'm facing off with little ninjas, well versed in the dark arts
of shitdick, with their little brown-streaked zebra-peckers. Eugh.
