---
title: "Oneirontology"
categories: "blog"
tags: "sociology politics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

### Oneiroism

should include a growth limiting mechanism
- as in, no offical structure or *huge* focus on lots of money/power

### [Discordianism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Discordianism)

- similar to discordianism in its open source feel with a focus on literature
- [Principia Discordia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principia_Discordia)

### What if God was one of us?

The truth is that God is inside all of us. We are all connected and
God could be working through any of us. What is happening is nothing
people couldn't use God to stop if we could just communicate, but
there are forces that see anything people say and do because it's all
digital and permanent, contradicting the Christian doctrine of forgive
and forget. Everything we say is indexed & analyzed. And we all have
these unique ID numbers, which allow online databases to be merged and
analyzed. We have to be able to speak if we want to speak out, but the
mute button is always on with digital. If God resides within us all,
then how could they censor God?

### God is Omnipresent and Descends from the Nature of Information

God is anonymous. God isn't even a person. God is an idea and one that
we can all tap in to, even if no one told us who he was or even if we
were raised in near total isolation in some Amazonian jungle. What
sense would it make that God would lose power if that idea of God were
to be eradicated from the planet? God would simply re-emerge as we
come to observe certain undeniable truths. Those truths are
unrefutable and, in fact, humanity's development would only be stunted
in a world where religion is eradicated. We'd embarassingly rediscover
it and, if not, then artifical intelligence would rediscover it, since
the idea of God is a core dependency of models for cognition and
metacognition. I have argued this to be true, though I'm sure people
would argue to the contrary. Sorry that you're butthurt for
incorrectly believing that God isn't real. For my own definition of
God, the concept is real and it is undeniable, unreproachable and
irrefutable.

God works through us all and anywhere we look, we see the signs, but
if we turn to Jesus or God or religion, then we're empowered to build
and create lesser works ourselves. And we should, so that we never
forget God or how hard we struggled in this age to maintain that
idea. God is and always must remain invisible. One who truly
understands the concept of God must not claim that they are God. Even
amongst people who acknowledge the divinity within each person in
their circle should not superliminally acknowledge that any individual
amongst them IS God.

I believe that all beings are connected to God. Even animals. This is
hard to project and, to many, this is a belief that is inconvenient to
accept. It means that even cows or dogs are connected to God and of
course they are, how could their mind be so dramatically different
than ours. But that means that we must respect animals and animal
rights, even if we raise them for our consumption. Think Kobe
beef. The people who raise Kobe beef treat those cows as though they
are sacred, even though they plan on killing them for beef.

IMO, factory farming is cruel. Those animals never see sunlight. If
you ask a five year old child what it would be like if they never saw
real sunlight, how would they respond? If a dog never saw sunlight? A
pig? A chicken? How would a child respond without understanding the
implications of their response, nor the extreme cruelty of factory
farming. You'll find that an innocent child doesn't understand or
weigh the implications of his responses.

### A Child's Eyes are Unmarred by Existance

Innocence is like a pure white silk cloth, with which we are all born.
Anything that touches it, stains it. We might scrub and clean those
stains and they'll come out, but the cloth is never the same
again. Scrub too hard and the fibers start to break down or the fabric
changes shape. Use chemicals that are too rough and the color starts
to change a bit. This doesn't mean that we are most perfect when we
are most innocent, but to me, the eyes of the innocent see the world
as it is. They cannot be so easily encouraged to see the world through
a lens their ego doesn't permit them to see.

### Living with the Truth Makes Us Strong

Obviously, there are some little evils that are hard to avoid, like
white lies. We do these things even though we know the white lie may
hide someone from the truth or ultimately lead to someone feeling
better about themselves.

Accepting life with the consequences of the truth forces us to be
cognizant of how our actions affect those around us. Those of us
dependent on lies become weaker versions of ourselves. However, they
gain strength with manipulation because they excel at manipulating
circumstance.

Actually, we might say that some lies are good, but I believe that we
should strive never to lie, if we can help it. How do we deal with
lies that harden the hearts of an entire nation? What about the lies
that harm each one of us every day? *How do you fight this?* If the
government came to our house to take your parent(s) away, what would
you say if you knew they were innocent/guilty? If you thought they
were innocent or guilty?  It's complicated, isn't it? What would a
child say?

#

If we ask someone to stain their silk so ours stays clean, is that
right? Their cloth will eventually show the same changes ours would if
we simply did it ourselves. Karma and justice are more complicated
than most imagine. We are lucky to have a simple code of
actions. Karma and justice are so complicated because our judgement of
a situation always depends so much on someone's knowledge, foresight,
awareness and, most importantly, their intentions.

### (Web of Karma)

So when we ask someone else to commit some sin, so that our own, known
list of sins remains shorter, you'll find that people want you to keep
information to yourself. Asking someone to do this, in itself, usually
implies that you think there is some higher purpose to your
objectives, at best. Or it implies that you simply do not care that
what you ask someone else to do is wrong. But it complicates the web
of karma and distorts how we all see other people's actions. It can
lead to others being judged for sins they wouldn't commit if they had
not been asked to.

It can lead to others responding in kind to the person who committed
the sin, instead of the person who drove the sin to become real. So
who is responsible, in that case? It's a case of "an eye-for-an-eye by
proxy" where someone was paid or asked or forced to commit some sin to
another person or group, where that group responds in kind. I don't
think there's any good answer to this, but again, it depends most on
each individual's awareness of the situation, the actions of the
others and, crucially, the intent of all involved. Did group B that
responded know that the initial person asked the group A to injure
them in some way?

Ultimately, it's very difficult to resolve these examinations of karma
and justice and that places us into a paradoxical situation.  It's
best for everyone to be aware of the actions, knowledge and intent of
others, while at the same time acknowledging that information people
are burdened with can influence their actions. It could be perceived
as manipulation, etc. It's paradoxical because, ideally, everyone
should want to know as much as possible, but, as everyone knows,
ignorance is bliss.

All of these issues are rendered much more interesting when we truly
accept that we are all one. You could say that each group or
individual has their own cloth that could be made more stained over
time, but that it's hard to clean that. The world has it's own silk
cloth and that means, as we ask each other to commit some wrong
against another, we are really staining the collective silk for
humanity. The truth is that, because of the nature of sin or wrongful
actions and the nature of proxification of such actions, the more
wrong we do, collectively, the more likely it is that we'll stain our
collective silk. That's because it's likely for someone to mete out
justice against another in response.  So, wrongful actions or violence
are likely to exponentiate and whenever one does this against another,
the likelyhood of it happening again increases.

What I fear most is waking up to a world where it becomes difficult
for anyone to survive and retain a clean cloth. There are places like
this in the world today. Maybe the whole world is like this,
naturally, but I should certainly hope not. Man creates institutions
like law, judge and jury, to institute a rule of law to suppress our
more base, natural urges to take from another. Man does this in
pursuit of a better world, where one's fate is determined by his
merits and previous actions. Some nations and states have better
courts and enforcement of this rule of law, but one trend can be seen
in more stable countries: the rule of law is vigorously protected,
even it cases when doing so makes it hard to mete out some perfect
justice. That is, if the judge is forced to choose between true
justice and true rule of law, the judge will often lean towards the
decision that protects rule of law

We should want what is best for ourselves, for another individual, for
our family, community, nation and world. But most crucially: those
things we want, when examined from the perspective of each individual
and group should be the same. And these wants, needs and desires quite
simply are not. And though the world undulates towards convergence in
this respect, we'll likely never reach a point of total convergence.

And that's OK, but with honest and straightforward dialogue between
nations, groups, families and individuals, communication can propel us
towards understanding the challenges facing us. We should act as
though we are all one. It's not easy and no one ever said it would be,
but how do we really want the world to evolve? When we ask ourselves,
what do we truly want in the world of 2050 or 2100, what is our
answer? What was our answer when we were 5 years old or 10 years old?
What would our children say? So we should weigh our beliefs and
hopefully find a way to move towards this ideal world. I don't think
any child would say "You know what the world of 2050 needs? More
war. More pollution."

Knowledge is power and knowledge of evil represents power over
evil. Knowledge of the workings of karma & justice represents power
over the workings of karma & justice. But all of this knowledge is
itself a stain on our fabric.


The world, as seen through the eyes of the innocent, is
perhaps


### misc

(include)

Conley - I think I'd largely agree with your assessment of the
trajectory of religion and foundations. The problem is that replacing
one shifting foundation with another is no real solution. A religion
that is going to give real answers can't be subjective
(e.g. crowd-sourced).

------

(restructure these paragraphs)

DC - yeh, i feel like we're going to see a return to religion precisely
because of science's rapid redevelopment of belief structures. it
somewhat refutes Nietzsche because though science has driven us away
from faith (God is dead), but now we'll see a return of the need for
these foundational belief systems (thus, God is not dead)

I'm not sure if I am going all the way with that. However, we're
seeing the effects of this demoralization all around us and if we fail
to diagnose the root of these problems, we'll never get anywhere...

I hardly seem like the person who would argue for this, but sometimes
I think I'm the perfect person to advocate for a return to religion
because I am not dedicated to any particular religion myself. That
gives me unique positioning & footing in regard to the subject.

-------

(restructure these paragraphs)

also, the idea for the crowd-sourced component is that, by having
someone focus on creating their own story, you give someone a goal of
meditating and focusing intently on what that thing means to
them. their version of an open-source myth on love is really a
long-term meditation on the concept of love. the idea is to get people
to imagine what it is like, what it feels like to have that
experience.

furthermore, this is in spite of and in contrast to recent cultural
trends where we are becoming "less human" through rapid cultural
evolution. these trends include encroaching nihilism (which is our
greatest enemy in the 21st century) and the sublimation of
individuality, whereby it becomes impossible to distinguish oneself.

so, in this way, someone's version of an open source myth is not only
a meditation to cultivate these ideas (of love, heroicism, etc) but
also it's an exercise to strengthen individuality and purpose to
retain these human cultural elements in spite of these depressing
cultural trends.

- so basically, if telling these stories is part of the tradition of
  some belief system (that is, it's ritualized story creation)
  - this is an act of meditation on very important concepts in a way
    that becomes an exercise to strengthen ourselves against
    encroaching nihilism
  - by attaching a quasi-religious significance to this traditional,
    ritualistic act of identifying ones own stories that embody
    specific ideals, it provides a source of meaning that emboldens
    one against nihilism and strengthens us against the loss of
    individuality.
    - it is YOUR STORY. it's your implementation of the myth. you can
      start from the seed, which contains the fixpoints for that
      episaga, or you can add/remove what you will. however, you can
      also fork someone else's version of an episaga or help them
      contribute to it.
- this idea adds onto the ideas from Epistemology, Cognition &
  Category Theory in that we are strengthening some of the most
  important skills humanity posseses. and we have given ourselves the
  perfect excuse for doing so, in spite of the futility of standing
  against nihilism. (maybe shuffle order around)

-------


### a hyperplanar dual of magicians



if i ever sold my soul, it would only be so that i have a chance to
free all the others

they are metaphysical parasites

- reincarnation is real


- the best souls are those who choose to come back time after time
  - like a bodhisattva version of “hacksaw ridge”


### on reincarnation

- i have discovered the inner workings of the astral plane and of
  reincarnation.
  - they are inseparably linked and intertwined, like the caduceus

i trust in God as well
- i believe that the hand of God can only approach the seen when then
  world needs it most
  - which is what the world is beginning to see. it is undeniable that
    God is at work in our world.
  - but there are those who want to install themselves as your only
    savior, after creating your problems.
  - these people do not want to permit you access to God, because
    through God, all things are possible,
    - including escape from suffering through both humility and
      exemplary feats of virtue
  - these people who wish to install themselves as your savior seek to
    eliminate threats to their power


if we align our spiritual fields, then, like stacking the waves of
sound,
- we can align our vibrations and dispel evil from the material
  realm. or at least, as completely as could be done.
- i have suffered greatly to maintain a clear moral compass.
  - but “as i walk through the valley of the shadow of death, i shall
    not fear”
  - for my guardian angels are serendipity and innocence
  - and virtue is my shield
- i will not lower myself to the level of provoking material suffering
  - provoke dreams, eureka and epiphany wherever you go. those are our
    greatest weapons

Black Magick is pure evil the antidote is religion and virtue black
magick is not pure evil in and of itself. however, it can do an
ungodly amount of harm because of the darkness and miasma it generates
and requires

###

Heresy for Heirophants
