---
title: "Oneirontology: Engineering Cultural Touchstones for Mythos"
categories: "blog"
tags: "oneirontology religion semiotics linguistics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> Heads up: this article contains hot fire. Ne Touchez Pas! If
> Prometheus' fate disturbs you: don't play with fire, don't play in
> the street and don't touch Dimension W.

Remember Prometheus? Cursed to being a liver-packed bento-box meal for
an Eagle. All day, every day, for eternity. Sounds super fun, right?
Who wouldn't love that?

This article discusses how to apply the principles of architecture to
semiotics and mythology to create worldview-evoking belief systems
robust enough to stand the test of time. Usually, such rare knowledge
requires generations of distillation, like a priceless bottle of wine.
After investing ten minutes in this article, you too can craft your
own belief system that will stand the test of time.

Or at least understand how "they" did it... It all has to do with
semiotics. This is...

# Design of Knowledge Systems

### Robustness of Culture, Preservation of Authenticity, etc

All knowledge and information is will degrade over time. Most worldly
knowledge is nothing without a mind to host it. Therefore, if the
system of developing/spreading knowledge doesn't include a system of
perpetuating its distribution, then it will be impermanent. The system
becomes particularly vulnerable when it doesn't recovery mechanisms
for handling distribution, dispersion, and reconstruction of
knowledge. When the system can't handle inevitable events where it's
nearly eliminated, it will almost certainly be overtaken by another
belief system at some point.

Regardless of whether the belief system is religious or secular,
people need them. People prefer belief systems that accompany social
institutions that exhibit strong influences on their surroundings.
When a belief system retracts into fewer people, possibly due to
persecution, followers are less likely to benefit from the social
institutions. This not only tests your followers' devotion, but also
tests the value that your belief system has to offer if it manages to
sustain itself through times like these.

On the other hand, one can design knowledge systems whose operation
excels when or only when there is poor distribution and dispersion.
These systems are very difficult to root out, because like the Furians
of Riddick, those who have the knowledge gain power upon its near
demise. Therefore the information economics of these systems can
create incentives to perpetuate the system when it's on its last
legs.

How does one become familiar with different systems of knowledge and
culture perpetuation? Like Merlin and the druids of Celt, one accrues
this knowledge over time, by learning to weave ideas and their
semiotic pointers. Is this a skill? Is this a kind of knowledge in
itself? And if so, what is the basis of this skill of knowledge
perpetuation? What are the peculiarities of such skills and systems of
knowledge? How much of history are we missing, if there have always
been massive incentives to keep secret the inner workings of science
and world politics?

IMO, the best place to learn about this is from cultures who went
underground by necessity.  The Celts, the Nords and the Goths are all
perfect examples of cultures who's elements and mythologies were
forced underground as Christianity swept over America. Specifically,
the Nords developed Ragnarok, which is one of many apocalypse myths of
world culture.

IMO: the Nords along with the rest of Europe compromised and agreed to
surpress their pagan history for a united, geopolitically defensible
Europe. But what Ragnarok represents is a literal return of the pagan
gods at the antipated culmination of human history thus far:
overpopulation. Here, the Nords may have intentionally created this
myth as an amalgamtion of other myths in an attempt to conserve what
is essentially a ZIP file of their culture. *The Nords intended their
mythos to be unpacked and their Gods again reified at a critical time
in history.*

Information compression mostly works the same, whether you are
compressing text encoded into tries or compressing hashmaps of some
representation of data, semantic and/or semiotic. You're basically
trying to find a "folding" pattern for the data that makes it small
and compressible.

When applied to cultural mythos, this compression is advantageous:
tightly-packed ideas inspire thought and study to decompress
them. This thought reinforces their longevity within the minds that
host them. Compression also serves as a kind of camoflauge that
protects these ideas and their functioning from competing belief
systems. Light compression and obfuscation of myth makes them more
viral, more viable and more likely to survive knowledge extinction
events.

So, cultures like the Norse often rely on myths during time of turmoil
to preserve information in an encoded form. In terms of geopolitics,
they could see which way the wind was blowing in Europe: either Europe
united through Christianity as a cultural basis or Europe would be
economically and geopolitically subservient to the Middle East. They
codified these myths in such a way as to ostensibly retain their
cultural identity while putting together a set of behaviors encoded in
myth, whose execution would begin upon apocalyptic events. Ragnarok is
perhaps the best example of a subversive attempt to use information
compression for cultural preservation. It's event-driven eschatology,
to be invoked upon apocalypse, whence the Gods return.

###

If one were to design such a system today, and especially in the face
of likely persecution of believers, what would we choose to preserve?
Which animals would we put on the Ark? How would we determine what
cultural elements remain truly immutable and hold true, regardless of
social upheaval that acommpanies the Singularity? If you took a look
at the creek that became the Grand Canyon, how would you survey the
land to determine the rock formations that stand the test of time,
regardless of storm surge? The structure of the Grand Canyon depends
little on the specifics of the events and moreso on the nature,
sequence and timing of those events. Do you have X-Ray vision for
fate?

### (authenticity/versatility)

How do the authors of myth abstract and obfuscate, so that the core
ideas maintain authenticity? The belief system must be resillient to
external subversion, manipulation and persecution. It also must
maintain a degree of pliability. Because belief systems require
believers to achieve significance, then flexibility is an important
early factor, but this needs to be balanced with the system's need for
consistence and permanence.

Religions develop versatility and (usefulness) as they accumulate
additional generations of knowledge. How do you anticipate when a
belief system will need to change three generations from now? This is
a paradox in context of many religions' reliance on steadfastness as
justification for validity of their belief system. It's not like Jesus
pitched an amendment mechanism for Christianity. How do the
Singularity and modernization affect the peculiarities of religious
evolution? After the Singularity, many anticipate technological
stagnation, but increasing pace of change is definitely a problem
beforehand. Is the next stage in humanity's evolution finite?

Consider another case of our future where we instead lose the
knowledge/tools to comprehend in another Dark Age. How would we update
the package of myths so that ideas remain readily consumable and
relevant?

Too much flexibility and offshoot organizations reduce capacity for
the religion's social institutions to benefit society. There is more
risk when movements branch outwards before there is enough
precipitation of identity and shared culture.

And this is all before you reach the pragmatic traps of founding a
religion. People forget that even the most devout worshippers are
human. Institutions of man are often more fallible than man
itself. Pondering the pragmatic issues of founding a religion, and
especially the ways that the seven deadly sins affect viable/robust
logistic structures of institions. Dealing with human nature
necessitates changes to the belief systems themselves and not just the
structures and processes of the institutions. The institutions must
exemplify the beliefs and practices of the religion. If the followers
cannot build robust institutions, then they will fall apart.

### (Importance of Semiotics to Mythology)

After learning linguistics, semiotics presents itself as another tool
to quantify and analyze the structure of myth, belief and
communication. As linguistics sheds its relationship to language, what
remains is essentially connected to semiotics. Therefore, semioitics
is more useful than linguistics for approaching the nature of
information and belief.

Semiotics involves signs composed of signifier and signified. The
universiality of symbols can be observed, measured and
stratified. Symbols have various degrees of universiality and whose
traits vary along linguistic, semiotic, psychological and sociological
dimensions. Understanding how a symbol's "market" penetration and,
thus, utility depends on its universiality and invariance,
geographically and temporally, allows one to understand the
risk/payoff for investing energy in remapping symbols.

### Temporally Invariant Signs

There are temporally invariant symbols that are mostly permanent
fixtures of the human condition. These symbols are signs whose
signifier or signified concept can morph over time even though the
pairing is mostly retained as commonly understood. Or these temporally
universal symbols can be signs whose significance and meaning remains
steadfast regardless of the era or age. Temporally fixed symbols are
almost always geographically invariant as well: they are recognized
the world over with some variance in the mapping of signifier and
signified.

Temporal variance in semiotic mappings can have each linear, cyclical,
generational and developmental dynamics associated with
them. Especially in the context of modernization and globaliztion,
signs across the world are undergoing constant flux in how they are
mapped and in their degree of penetration. There are signs which only
develop or change in significance once someone reaches a certain age
and has been through specific experiences. There are signs which
develop specific intergenerational dynamics. **The relationships
between these signs and their penetration into geographically
dispersed populations offers *unparalleled insight* into psychosocial
cultural dynamics.** It begins to confer what can be perceived as
God-like wisdom and intuiton.

### Geographically Invariant Signs

Geographically invariant symbols are also special, but can change over
time, gaining or losing significance and affluence. Signs whose
signifier depends heavily on the traits of local regions have a high
degree of propensity for semiotic permutation, transformation and
evolution as they migrate from one area to another. They are less than
ideal, though useful for establishing and developing local identity.
If your religion or belief system is heavily invested in mapping
geographically variant signs, a central authority will lose power over
them as their meaning and mapping evolves over time and space.

### (scarcity)

There are signs whose power derives from scarcity: sexual images,
money or rare experiences. The influence derived from signs who's
power is derived from scarcity is magical. By limiting the prevelence
of the signifier, you tightly control the circumstances by which the
sign becomes defined in the minds of men. Therefore, you can constrain
the typology of mindforms that result from exposure to the
signifier. This is the power of the occult: it is power derived from
the unseen. This power allows you strongly and deftfully cultivate the
semiotic mappings in the mind.

### (branding)

Signs can be used to brand an experience or brand a memory. Semiotics
is incredibly powerful for branding or marketing agencies to
understand, especially when these agencies understand or can
manipulate/coordinate the dynamics/evolution of semiotics in the
markets they develop advertisements for. Ultimately, advertising is
simply paying others to influence informational mappings in the minds
of consumers and it's expensive.

### (in context of probablistic, ergodic programs)

I've been working on a theory of metanomics, which describes any
genomic system in terms of a probabilistically dynamical state-machine
which transitions between various metastates with ergodic
stablization. The true power of this paradigm for genomics is that it
extends to the human mind. It is incredibly useful for artificial
intelligence, but also for modeling, quantifying and predicting
psychosocial cultural dynamics. In magnitude, it is the equivalent to
Einstein's insights into relativity, but for genomics, cognition and
the human mind ... *not that anyone will ever give me a fuck'n
opportunity in this world.*

The insights garnered from this perspective are beautiful. The inner
workings of Genomics and the human mind begin to come into focus and
everything makes sense. You develop a greater appreciation for God's
work in the world. These dynamical state-machines can be designed like
programs and they operate autonomously. It is a completely novel
paradigm for programming, as far as I can see. In genomics, much work
as been done to put forth to develop models which stand alongside this
paradigm, but none are completely able capture the behavior of all
units and subunits of the system. No paradigm of genomic programming
that I've heard of accounts for the importance of spatially
distributed state.

### (the most universal symbol)

Is there a most powerful sign in semiotics, as mapped within humanity?
Yes, but it's not the instantiation of a sign. It is a higher-order
metasign. It is symmetry and this is the Origin of Semiotics. Again,
this implies origin in the cartesian sense as well Beginning. This
origin in the "space" of semiotics also has connections to abstract
algebra, number theory, galois theory, category theory and it is the
unifying center of everything.

### The Shepherd as a Universal Symbol

A well-recognized symbol for religions is that of the shepherd. Jesus
was a shepherd, which was well known through out the middle east and
other adjacent areas.
- it was a humble role in society, where one person was entrusted with
  ensuring the safety and vitality of a flock. I imagine that, in many
  cases, this livestock was an asset that belonged to someone else in
  most cases.
  - but this symbol of the shepherd was universally recognized. a
    shepherd might operate differently in various regions, but there
    are some aspects of his duties and responsibilities that were
    shared by all cultures with agriculture & livestock
    - a shepherd tends to animals & livestock
    - a shepherd must fend off threats to the livestock
    - a shepherd can manage his flock to feed it well or feed it
      poorly. in the longterm, this can lead to a healthy flock or one
      that is malnourished.
    - the shepherd might herd animals specific to a region, but there
      are common pieces of information shared across all of those
      regions.
  - the shepherd is also a well known symbol in several major world
    religions. it's present in Judaism, in Christianity, in Buddhism,
    in Islam, and to a limited degree in Zoroastrianism.

- in Mahayana Buddhism, there are 3 degrees of bodhisattva, depending
  on how their words/actions express their beliefs:
  - the King: who strives for Buddhahood as soon as possible as a
    means of self-empowerment to help others
  - the Boatman or Ferryman: who strives for Buddhahood along with
    other sentient beings (to ensure they reach the other side)
  - the Shepherd: who strives for Buddhahood, but only under the
      condition that all other sentient beings have achieved
      Buddhahood.
    - The shepherd is the "highest" bodhisattva, who has vowed remain
      behind for the longest time and make the greatest personal
      sacrifices.
    - one might say this is the greatest sacrifice, as one must
      acknowledge the all-but-ensured lack of personal attainment of
      Buddhahood, since it would be a pipe-dream to think all sentient
      lifeforms could become Buddha.
- but the symbol of the shepherd is one that appears in four or five
  major religions. it has universal appeal, understanding, etc.

# Semiotics of Mythology

If you're using semiotics to encode meaning in mythology by mapping
universally relevant symbols to meanings then:

- How do you know which symbols to choose?
  - generally universal recognition trumps everything else, but
    there's lots of stuff that's universally relevant:
    - water, food, sleep, hunger, greed, money, etc
    - how do you map this stuff and what's the best way to map it?
    - there is even a list of about 100 universally shared traits,
      which are common even to Amazonian cultures which are completely
      isolated
    - there is a varied degree of universal recognition. to some
      degree, you want those symbols to be more relevant to your
      culture.
      - universally relevant symbols are useful in that they are
        marketable and brandable, but that trade-off is balanced
        because they also provide additional surface area for
        cultural subversion.
- Which symbols will most resist semiotic change (change in meaning or
  signs) over time. Why?
  - how is this so completely different in our digital world.
    - and how to harness this?
- What systems of symbols will resist change in the face of constantly
  changing culture?
  - In the face of cultural turmoil before, during and after
    modernism/globalism?
- And in the face of some possibly permanent, transformative event,
  such as the Singularity?
  - this event, if possible or if certain, could be transforming
    culture and human behavior now.  Similar to the Roko Basilisk, the
    idea itself has immense power.

- and if almost every human need/desire/norm will change during the
  next few decades, how do we decide what to preserve?
  - how do we preserve it in such a way that is robust?
  - in such a way that resists the potential for abuse of religion?
  - in alignment with the values of humanism?

I'm sure there are Theology PhD's all over the world that have written
dissertations on this topic or similar ones. Studying Ragnarok would
be Eschatology and there's probably a name for this such study.

- signs & morphemes from zipf's distribution on language.
  - and also signs
- top 500 words/morphemes to learn in any new language are a great
  start for enumerating a list of mappable symbols

### Semiotic Mappings Across Human Culture

So when constructing myths, what are examples of systems of signs,
symbols, etc? Any set of signs common to a culture, nation or region
can be mapped to multiple meanings. This is true of a signs to a
varying degree of frequency.

### Astrology

Perhaps the most constant set of `signs` in the semiotic sense, this
was the only strata of phenomena which was completely constant to
pre-historic man. The weather was seasonal and varied. Children were
born young and died before old age. Previous generations left their
mark, but it faded fast. Stories and myths could be lost. Even the
earth changed from time to time, but the stars were the only thing
that never, ever changed, though it would have been difficult to
verify to any degree of certainty. The pursuit of understanding the
inner workings of celestial bodies -- their usefulness in regard to
navigation and determining geography and eventually in profiting from
commerce -- doubtlessly inspired measurement, quantification, the
transmission of knowledge, and its maintainance.  Around the time we
began to explore more complicated verbal language, how would one
explain to someone else the constant nature of stars? How would
someone prove that? How can one prove something in the physical world
is constant without measuring it? Those questions likely lead us to
pursue monolithic works and eventually architecture. Anything which
broke from the constant nature of the stars would have been perceived
as incredibly important. e.g. planets and supernovae.

Furthermore, as a set of signs, astrology is unique across the world
.. to a degree. The northern and southern hemispheres experience
things differently and different stars are visible at different points
in the year.

The developments of primordial astrology, commerce, agriculture and
architecture were incredibly important to humanity's development from
a phenomenological perspective. Each of these represent a paradigm
shift in humanity's understanding of how we related to the
world. Astrology represents our ability to make measurements. Commerce
represents our ability to understand need and desire, to coordinate
human activity and to intentionally precipitate social hierarchy, and
to reward innovation. Agriculture represents a paradigm shift in how
we could live and separated humanity from limiting its food source to
that provided by nature and thus, eliminated many constraints on our
suitable geographic environments.  Architecture represents a
transformation in how humanity relates to our world: we began to see
the effects or greatness of those who came before us; we developed an
understanding of legacy and perhaps some kind of dominance over death;
we understood that we could separate ourselves from the dangers of the
natural world. After these four elements came the economic need for
written language and law.

### Math and Science

Another set of fairly or very constant signs are mathematical and
scientific truths and laws, though these didn't arise quite as early
as those signs from astrology. These require a priori knowledge to
have much significance or the capacity for transmission without
communication. If you learn enough and look often enough, you'll find
that everything is more than it seems at the surface. What lies
beneath can be very useful, but is often confusing and more trouble
than its worth.

### Architypical Events in Human History

- the creation of the world
  - and the proposed solution to the problem of evil
  - every religion needs to explain a beginning, somehow
    - even tribal societies passed down oral traditions of a
      beginning.
  - because the story of a beginning is itself a universal facet of
    human culture, then it itself is a symbol.
- calamitous events (Noah's Flood, etc)
  - Noah's Flood is a deep rooted architypical event which serves to
    provide each new generation with an understanding that humanity &
    civilization are impermanent. In the Judeo-Christian tradition,
    the story of Noah's Flood reminds us that we exist at the grace of
    God.

### Architypical Events/Phenomena in the Human Experience

- birth and death
  - everyone has a birth
  - everyone has a death
  - everyone can relate to these things
  - and ... everyone has a v-card
- hunger & thirst
- virginity (& purity)
- right and wrong

### Human Relationships (Family/Friendship)

- family relationships are shared by almost everyone.
  - lack of father/mother/parents produces some of the
    highest-magnitude shifts in a person's psychology
    - lack of presence or loss of a parent produces similarly dramatic
      shifts in a person's psychology
  - those relationships are at least known to everyone
    - father, mother, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, grandparents
    - they might mean different things to different people in various
      cultures, but the presence of these signs as mapple in terms of
      semiotics is universal
  - and family relationships are a set of symbols with profound
    strength.
    - even if someone is reading about the father/mother of Zeus or
      Persephone or Heracles, there is a subtle profundity influenced
      by factors such as family relationships which molds the lens
      through which we experience those stories

- perhaps distubingly, this is a set of symbols which could be erased!
  - think Brave New World, where children have state imposed family.
    - artificial reproduction supplants familial relationships of
      biological origin
  - Orwellian assaults on family are real. A tyrannical government
    will leap straight for the corrosion of the family as the
    strongest set of relationships in nearly every individual's life
    - this isn't new: it was life-as-usual in Greek Sparta
      - some Spartan's were separated from their family at birth and
        raised as ruthless soldiers
  - we are seeing this to some degree now and we need to be prepared
    because an overreaching government evolving towards tyranny *will*
    seek to undermine family.
    - it's not methodic or systematic now, but it very well could be.
    - God help us if we let tyrants get away with it!!

### Animals & Animal Behavior

### Plant Life

#### Medical Uses, Geographic Distribution, Cultural Significance and Plant Interaction

#### Agriculture

### Psychology & Psychiatry

- in the case of modern society, psychology and psychiatry can be
  mapped in to a language.
  - this is really what the occult and system of magick were about.
  - creating systems that could map to features and phenomena in the
    human mind, in an attempt to control them.

### Weather Events

- rain, drought, etc
- these are less likely to be completely universal, but there
  presence/absence is mappable via semiotics.
  - and again, for millenia, people have reached for mythology as a
    means of explaining these phenomena.
    - even if they believed a myth about the Great Flood in the Epic
      of Gilgamesh to be false, they still derived useful information
      from mythology about that event or about flooding and how it
      could affect people
      - therefore a total assault on religion or an extinction of
        mythology/religion will lead to a humanity that is inherently
        less equipped to deal with life, people, cultures and events
        (common & rare)

### Health/Disease/Anatomy


### Human Behavior

- emotions, emotional progressions
- eating, sex, things that every person must do

### Misc Phenomena

... Everybody Poops




# Ragnarok

Still, Ragnarok is more than this (TODO: edit to update
connective). It is pre-literary futurism. It shows that the ancients
knew far more than they are given credit.  Ragnarok symbolizes the end
of the world as we know it. Like most other apocalypse myths from the
age of Pisces, the end of the world symbolizes the changes introduced
from exponential population growth.

During Ragnarok, the Norse Gods return one final time. In this myth,
Thor struggles against Jormungand, a snake streching around the
world. This snake is an Ouroborosian symbol, which is critical in
composing an interpretation of what Jormungand represents. Ouroboros
is a snake that grasps its own tail. It's a symbol found in many
esoteric traditions and one that represents a group dynamic where the
strong devour the weak for sustenance and to cleanse the group of
weakness. It's pretty evil.

###

However, theres another meaning to Jormungand, which lies closer to
another interpretation of Ouroboros: the global economy. But first, if
the snake has curled around the world, then it would be impossible for
the Nords to be unaware of the spherical shape of the world or at
least the possibility. And, as the stewards of Thule and Hyperboria,
*constantly moving in and out of the Arctic Circle* the Nords were
perhaps the people *most* aware of the spherical shape of the
world. The Nords were *well-versed in navigation* and *travel from
close to the Arctic Circle to close the the equator. **It would be
impossible for the Nords to navigate their corner of earth while being
unaware of the spherical shape of the Earth**.

###

The previous sentence should be read as: if you know anything about
navigating with 15th century technology, Columbus was a cover story
for incidental genocide. The ignorance of Columbus is the greatest lie
of Western history. The degree to which this lie has been spread
through Western history tells you a lot about the quality and
trustworthiness of historical records themselves: they don't account
for secret and top secret information. Why would the West lie about
America and keep it secret from the time of
[St. Brendan the Navigator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brendan)?
Because the West didn't want the rest of the world to know that North
America was ripe for the picking. Again, why? Because western maritime
navigability was inferior until the era before the Renaissance.

###

So... Columbus is a lie, partly to cover genocide. *WOOPS WE DIDN'T
MEAN TO!!* ... It was an "accident" and nothing more. Do you feel any
better? What about the rest of history? How many teachers in America
will look you in the eye and tell you the story of Columbus? So,
before this is all finished, the rest of the Illuminati's secrets will
be revealed. And no, this ain't no !@#$'ing Youtube documentary. And
the Illuminati always knew that the time would could when all their
sins throughout history would be out in open air in front of
everyone. It's not like they didn't see it coming. And it's not like
they can't justify their dirty laundry: they all know what they've
done and they hate themselves. It's a dirty job, but someone's gotta
do it.

### Ragnarok Was Pre-Literary Futurism

- TODO: some of this is necessary as an example of well-architected
  cultural compression/archival through myth
  - but these ideas are terribly organized

The goal of Ragnarok was to preserve culture so that it could be
triggered later in an event-driven manner. The story is

IMO, when modernization threatens to homogenize all culture and
Jormungand symbolizes global trade. As Jormungand stretches across the
world, this represents fully globalized trade routes and the liquidity
that ebbing around the world.

A time when trade becomes global and when modernism threatens to
homogenize all culture.

  - the authors of Ragnarok wrote it down (in the Poetic Edda?) during
    a time of cultural turmoil
  - in other words, they knew their culture would disappear and that
    the Christian persecutions of western Europe would spread
    northward.
    - to some degree the most influential Nords may have been in
      agreement with utilizing Christianity to solidify Europe against
      Islam and any other major cultural movements from the Middle
      East.
    - these people were aware of Islam (again, they fought in the
      greatest road trip of the middle ages: the 2nd Crusades, circa
      end of 11th century)
      - they even brought back islamic jewelry from the middle east,
        which apparently baffled archaeologists for some time. there
        was a ring with arabic inscriptions found at a nordic burial
        site or something.

### Europe has always been obsessed with geopolitical cultural unity

- amoung others with political influence at the time -- think
  pre-Charlemagne Gaul (~7th century) through Medici Italy
  (15th century)
  - they would have been aware that, as long as Europe remained
    culturally united on the basis of Christianity, it would be much
    more capable of handling external threats, regardless of the
    consequences of internal conflict.
  - but the second that Islam crept in the back door (via
    people's minds, etc) and gained significant geopolitical
    foothold from within Europe, this would be a major
    problem.
    - this is because of the geopolitical and economic situation
      during the dark/middle ages: Europe's imports/exports were
      tightly coupled to trade in the middle east.
    - as long as Europe and the Middle East remained geographically
      and politically independent, that trade fostered prosperity in
      both Europe and the Middle East
      - but if either Europe or the Middle East were to obtain
        complete dominance over the region, that balanced &
        well-intentioned prosperity would give way to a system whereby
        either:
      - Europe becomes isolated & impovershed or the Middle East loses
        the ability to profit from Silk Road trade in its region
        - the entireity of 5,000 years of history can be accurately
          summarized by simply looking at the Silk Road, the economics
          of each region trading on it, and the politics of whoever
          controlled specific regions of it

### Neo-Ragnarok
