---
title: "Peace, Power, Prosperity and Other 21st Century Paradoxes"
categories: blog
tags: "psychology philosophy sociology leadership"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

We're living in a very special moment in history, which represents the
culmination of modernization. It is paramount that we recognize how
and why we arrived to where we are now.

It's crucial to recognize that with great power, comes great
responsibility. Thanks Peter Parker. Those in power must recognize
their duty and exhibit their respect of it in their stewardship.
Understanding the knowledge and experience that the powerful
demonstrate in the West and elsewhere, then what terrifies me is the
idea that there would suddenly be a revolutionary shift in power to
some group of people who would have no clue how to handle it.
Thankfully, it looks like we are approaching a period in history where
traditional problems like disease, poverty and hunger have become
tractable via technology.

## Stability Is Vitality

### In the 21st Century

Of course, this assumes some baseline of stability. As long as we
maintain stability, then these problems can be resolved through the
application of advanced technology. Yet, tech itself contributes to
cultural and economic instability. So, the solution itself could
exacerbate the conditions preventing maintainance of stability and
prevent us from resolving disease and poverty.

There have been so many 20th century political movements both small
and large that promote a revolutionary change in leadership as a kind
of societal panacea.  But IMO, that promise just misleads people into
disrupting the existing system controlled by a select few, so that it
can be replaced by another system, operating in almost the same
way. Inevitably, a handful of people will retain control and after
such conflict, drastic policies and powers are required to maintain
order. So the people who supported such a transition have been merely
deluded into swapping out their overlords. Note! I am in no way
advocating revolutionary action, especially not with some violent
means.

### Everyone Should Be Invested

So, what is the answer then? We need to distribute ownership of our
situation: our world, our culture, our assets and our actions to
people struggling to make things better. This is a more general way of
stating that we need a return of the middle class, but it encompasses
more than that.  I'm not advocating for the forced transfer of wealth
or anything.  We need people to become invested in how their actions
affect the world around them, for better or for worse.  We need
independence because a self-directed life that embraces the
consequences of our actions requires that we accept *forward-facing*
responsibility for how our life today in affect those around us
tomorrow.

Technology is exponentially changing the world. It is like fire in
that it has the potential to help and to cause chaotic harm. Again,
the answer is shared ownership of our destiny. By ownership and
investment, I mean that we need to be culturally, financially and
personally invested in technology, so that we feel responsible for how
it affects the world.  We need to world, its countries and its
people, to feel invested in technology and our direction moving
forward. I don't know how to accomplish this goal, but I know that it
is what we need. Otherwise, when something goes wrong, which will
happen to some degree, some party that was not invested may seize on
the opportunity, using it as an excuse to gain power.

======

### From blog ideas on education

Centralizing and utilizing educational resources to accelerate K12
education, while maintaining the ability to experiment

### FB Comments on Diversity of Education

IMO the lack of religion in this country has resulted in general
demoralization over a few generations. I'd like to see fed/state
governments offer vouchers for *some* otherwise private schools. I
don't believe that only the wealthy should be capable of sending their
kids to a private school of their own choice. forcing everyone into
secular schools, unless you're from an upper middle class is not
fair. it makes it hard to raise your kids in a controlled environment
where they learn about the world in the way you want your children to
learn about it.

IMO There's the liberty of the individual and the liberty of the
community. over the past seven decades, the liberty of the individual
has surged and this is great. people should want to be the kind of
person they want to be and to feel comfortable about that. But this
has surged at the restriction of local communities. Because of
religion's waning influence, it has become difficult or almost
impossible to ensure your children aren't exposed to specific ideas.

That might sound a bit backwards, but I imagine that as a parent, that
is one of your first priorities. In fact, I know that is true from a
psychological perspective. There are things about the world you don't
want your children to have to think about. And also there are things
that kids or even people shouldn't know or think about *generally*
simply because it makes it easier to to identify children that have
because it's rare instead of fairly common.

We need diversity in our systems of education. Also, this could be a
means of getting some intelligent or talented kids out of a bad
neighborhood early on. It sounds like a completely separate issue, but
this may be a long term tactic for breaking the cycle of poverty and
offering new options for parents who'd love nothing more than to help
their children grow up without fearing specific influences.

======

## Education

### We Need More of It

These ideals, such as independence and motivation for education, will
become increasingly difficult to maintain as technology supplants more
of our responsibilities.  This is why it should be near axiomatic in
our culture to maintain these ideals.  We need our educational
institutions to do more. It may not seem fair, but we need to be able
to expect more of our children. To that goal, we need to allow
educational institutions to retain the flexibility to experiment,
while expecting them to demonstrate consistent performance.

### Cost and Price Goes Down

Good news: price of education and especially higher education should
drop dramatically. While, online education can replace some of the
roles of traditional higher education, it can never replace the social
atmosphere. There is no replacement for the comradery developed
there.  You get the opportunity to spend four years living with
apprentices wholly devoted to the same skills you develop. And you
can't replace the value of the social network someone develops while
in college.

### Where Do We Learn About Life?

In addition to teaching, we need our schools to imbue appreciation for
values and ethics to combat the corrosive effects of demoralization.
To me, it's a shame that religion is completely separated from our
educational institutions, while I believe strongly in the separation
of church and state. I definitely don't think religion should be part
of the curriculum, but the truth is *science is a religion*. Or it is
close enough to the definition of a religion. Science is accepted as
truth and it establishes a concrete worldview. The problem is that it
doesn't actually replace the other vital aspects of a religion.
Religion typically establishes the basis for and justification of a
value system. We have replaced the option of any religion in most
educational systems with what is, for all intensive purposes, another
religious system, but one that doesn't propagate the importance of
values and ethics. And so, science is corrosive and demoralizing if it
is not coupled with the propagation of a value system. Therefore, you
get what we have today and I'm sure there is a legion of rabid
athiests that would be more than willing to debate for hours on
facebook. But are they willing to spend that time teaching about
humanities and ethics? Why or why not?

Therefore, it is a grave mistake to expect our eduction institutions
to only teach to the test.  Yes, that is important, but the best
teachers, and the most memorable to me, are those who taught me about
life. Like my marching band instructor who was somehow, God only
knows, able to force us to do pushups and demonstrated control by
holding the group accountable for an individual's actions. There it is
again, actually: the group is invested in and responsible for the
individuals.

### I Beleaguered

I dont know the solution here. For many of society's issues, the
answer seems obvious, but the trouble is that there is no simple legal
implementation that would be reasonable and resilient. Tangentially,
few laws which are truly wise are easily understood. Unfortunately,
those exact laws are sometimes difficult to defend by nature or are
often targeted. Legal systems are convoluted and so are the actions of
those who operate within it. It's fascinating, really. Their actions
are hard to understand, but usually, when perceived in the right way,
demonstrate commitment to the defense of ethics and rights. Usually.
Everyone believes strongly in something. The hard part is determining
what or why or how they express their beliefs.

## Climate Change

We absolutely cannot leave our children with the debt of climate
change. Sidenote: in the near future, there is demand for coal not
driven by production of electricity. Climate change is a delicate
issue, but IMO, pollution is much worse. Overfishing and coral reef
damage threatens to cause a global food supply catastrophe. The fresh
water supply of many urban areas is approaching tap out.  Again, the
solution is that we must all feel invested in the state of our world,
because that implies that we own the positive and negative
consequences.

So many people claim I'm dangerous or controversial or a bad example
or whatever. And yet, I'm trying to warn about serious problems that
threaten the stability of our entire world. Seriously: *have you ever
dealt with hungry people?* Hunger on a widespread scale is a recipe
for disaster. Have you ever seen Les Miserables? I actually haven't,
but I heard those people get super pissed off. It's not funny.

So, when we save a few pennies here and there cutting corners on
production, so that Belfort's stocks go up a quarter of a point.  It
seems to make sense on the books, but there are real consequences and
we are just replacing profits today with environmental debt tomorrow.
Just because you have abstracted who feels those consequences does not
change the fact that someone feel those effects. And for some of these
problems, we are barely going to notice them, until the dam breaks and
we're all underwater. So say what you want, but we must protect
stability. And if these practices across the world are going to cause
problems that potentially lead to catastrophe, do you want to be the
one that profited from cutting corners? Or would you like to be the
one who profits from helping clean this shit up? Honestly, that's your
choice and it's not a bad one.



The good news is that we seem to be reasonably prepared for this
unprecidented cultural transition in looming ahead of us. The systems
that got us here are resilient and well designed.

When it comes to world changing revolution, there is the option to
completely overthrow the systems that got us here, but is that a good
idea? It is trivial to construct compelling arguments against them,
but I think it's misguided. Just look at governments and cultures that
insulated themselves against outside influence throughout the past two
millenia. When has it ever been a long-term positive for a select
handful of people to control every facet of culture? Almost every time
this happens, those select few insulate themselves with carefully
constructed power structures that stymie technological and cultural
innovation in the name of the status quo.  That is, they are
comfortable with the status quo because they understand how to
maintain power and order, so long as existing systems don't change too
much.  And while this drives predictability, which can be beneficial,
in the long term, stifled innovation is bad because it leads to
situations where another contemporaneous society can easily
outcompete.

But, what if we all evolve into one society? What then? For the sake
of stability, those elite few will construct systems to perfectly
control society and maintain status quo. In truth, as we approach the
Singularity, it is a good idea to control the deployment of technology
with radical implications. However, in the long term, for a one world
society, if a select few constructs systems which prevent or stifle
innovation, then none of the economic factors that compel innovation
will no longer exist, since there could be no outside culture with
enough flexibility to develop viable alternatives.

Our world must maintain that flexibility to experiment and innovate,
in spite of pressures which will seek to homogenize culture. Diversity
of mind, body and culture is an asset, which I discussed at length in
this
[Facets of Greatness piece](/posts/2016-05-14-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html).
As the world gradually melds into one, then the power structures which
promote stability will paradoxically conflict with the flexibility and
diversity required for innovation. You can see this happening already
in education systems.  As we require increasingly efficient
instruction of more material for growing populations, this requires
more centralized management of policy, which stifles innovation.  If
humanity is the sum of ideas available to our culture and we imbue
mostly one set of ideas into high school students with little
variation, then we will produce a generation of children trapped
within a homogenous paradigm. It will detract from individuality at a
time when technology already whittles away at need for most people to
participate in society.

Efficiency is necessary to some degree and that will be obvious, but
flexibility will be the casuality. Pressures in society will motivate
us to pursue efficiency over flexibility in education and elsewhere.
In the short term, this will seem as though it is improving the
situation, while gradually causing long-term problems. Some of these
are philosophic, like reduced individuality leading to difficulty for
future generations to identify a sense of purpose in the world,
leading to the potential for social unrest. In summary, our need for
stability will may lead us to retool social programs with efficiency
in mind, discarding flexibility, leading to short-term benefits that
prevent us from identifying the real philosophic and cultural issues,
eventually threatening stability.




- brief overview of personal political views
  - fiscal conservatism, where possible
    - thankfully, the cost to many of the solutions to these problems
      is going to rapidly drop
  - i'm socially liberal
    - while respecting socially conservative principles as leading to a
      stronger society.
- views on religion & christianity
  - my views are a bit paradoxical
  - while i'm not particularly religious myself, it's hard for me to
    watch religious institutions losing power, knowing the value that
    they provide in society
    - for america, christianity helped establish a foundation for
      american values.
    - christianity (and other religions) are a way to propagate a
      system of values. yes, it is clearly possible for people to be
      good citizens without religion. it is possible. but where is the
      cultural mechanism that helps ensure that?
      - atheism is disorganized. there are atheist organizations, but
        AFAIK, they don't work towards providing a framework for
        humanist values.
      - instead, atheists seek to emphasize
    - when policies restrain christianity's influence in american
      life, they
  -
