

## Quantum Language ##

In an earlier article,
[The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html),
I posited the possibility of a quantum language. Such a language would
extend the concept of the singular universal language developed by any
sufficiently advanced intelligent life in the universe. Such a
universal language results from several factors, including the
possibility of one way communication across the universe without the
need to exchange grammar and semantics or any information to receive,
transmit and consume. These would instead be implicit and all of it
would should be extrapolated from symmetry inherent in some root
mathematic concepts.  This would expand to encompass all possible
concepts that any life form would signify. It is hard to imagine what
that universal language would look like, but if it sounds interesting,
give the article a read...

The representations of information in QS, UQS and quantum circuits are
to one's and zero's what the quantum universal language would be to
ASCII. The quantum language would not encode textual representations
of words.  For that matter, such a language would never actually have
discretely signalled structure, which is partly why it's such an
interesting thought experiment.

What do I think this language would be like? I don't know enough about
quantum circuits to provide anything more than sci-fi speculation.
Perhaps it's like whalesong emitted between alien superintelligences
separated by vast distances.  Imagining this concept might be a futile
pursuit of imagination.

However, if intelligent life evolves to utilize quantum across the
board, it probably removes the digital/quantum divide in hardware and
networking. For example, stepping down to digital representations of
information may present a hardware or process bottleneck. If most or
all algorithms can be represented or structured entirely within
quantum circuits, then there would be acceptably minimal design
limitations for software.

Assuming all computation and networking is quantum, then for
information to convey meaning via the universal language referenced
above, the grammar and meaning needs to be composed into the
non-deterministic state of quantum circuit components.

. Once the , entities
receive it over channels paired with entanglement.

