---
title: ""
categories: "blog"
tags: "semiotics linguistics social-physics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- title?

- concepts that are difficult to succinctly reference:
  - agents: people and bots
    - agents as in the concept of agency and ability to impact
      information and communication
    - how to simplify this? just refer to as agents? or
      information-processing entities?
  - instances of information:
    - generally just any representation of information ... quick short
      name for this?
  - players in social games:
    - should i just refer to these as agents?
    - is a distinct term appropriate? they are idealized as particles
      that exert influence on information systems

- structure of series:
  - (part one)
    1. start with warning on how tech leads to a breakdown in how
      people and autonomous agents understand cause & effect
      - or should i leave this for later?
    2. overview of basic concepts of social physics, along with
       everyday examples
    3. philosophic implications of social phys, networks, info
       dynamics
  - (part two)

- combination of social physics, information warfare, causality

# Metaphysical Precipitation

Given growth of networking infrastructure and computational capacity
without limit, reality rapidly converges towards the metaphysical.
This results in the runaway precipitation of informational dynamics
whose structure and interactions increasingly preempt dynamics
originating in the physical.

This chaotic period eventually results in irrevocable disruption to
philosophical constructs. Perception of causality becomes intractible
as the ubiquity and opacity of information systems render cause and
effect unknowable. Understanding causality is complicated for both
humans and automated agents. Only the former is rendered powerless as
an unaided individual, whereas the latter is weakened in large systems
with high volumes of agents.

Eventually, the configuration of matter in the local physical space is
repurposed as hardware for quantum simulation, rendering its specific
configuration meaningful only in how it maps to a virtualization of an
information system, which is decoupled in a
[universal quantum simulator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_simulator)(UQS).
In its final state, with maximal integration of local matter, the laws
of physics become mostly inconsequential, since the information
systems determine the state, albeit non-deterministically.

Therefore, the significance of metaphysical forms does not ascend from
information encoded into matter because this final state of matter can
virtualize multitudes in a fluid form with no definite physical
representation. This is yet another argument against the Marxist
Dialectic, since the representation of a program with arbitrary
structure can be represented within the UQS.

Actually demonstrating the existence and mechanics of a UQS would
strengthen the argument, although it was theoretically shown to be
possible. Whether a UQS could, perhaps physically, conclusively
resolve the divide between the Marxist and Hegelian dialectics,
depends on the specific mechanics of UQS. Primarily at issue is how a
UQS entwines the Quantum Simulator(QS) program within its own state
results in varying degrees of virtualization. A Universal Turing
Machine (UTM) entwines a representation of the simulated Turing
machine within its own machine's tape. To prove the Hegelian
dialectic, it is not necessary, but is ideal for the QS program
representation to be purely virtualized within the UQS. Further, it
could be argued that a QS itself contains sufficiently convoluted
physical information representation such that the reliance on a UQS is
not needed.


## Quantum Language ##

In an earlier article,
[The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-04-12-the-nature-of-space-time-and-information-implies-universal-language.html),
I posited the possibility of a quantum language. Such a language would
extend the concept of the singular universal language developed by any
sufficiently advanced intelligent life in the universe. Such a
universal language results from several factors, including the
possibility of one way communication across the universe without the
need to exchange grammar and semantics or any information to receive,
transmit and consume. These would instead be implicit and all of it
would should be extrapolated from symmetry inherent in some root
mathematic concepts.  This would expand to encompass all possible
concepts that any life form would signify. It is hard to imagine what
that universal language would look like, but if it sounds interesting,
give the article a read...

The representations of information in QS, UQS and quantum circuits are
to one's and zero's what the quantum universal language would be to
ASCII. The quantum language would not encode textual representations
of words.  For that matter, such a language would never actually have
discretely signalled structure, which is partly why it's such an
interesting thought experiment.

What do I think this language would be like? I don't know enough about
quantum circuits to provide anything more than sci-fi speculation.
Perhaps it's like whalesong emitted between alien superintelligences
separated by vast distances.  Imagining this concept might be a futile
pursuit of imagination.

However, if intelligent life evolves to utilize quantum across the
board, it probably removes the digital/quantum divide in hardware and
networking. For example, stepping down to digital representations of
information may present a hardware or process bottleneck. If most or
all algorithms can be represented or structured entirely within
quantum circuits, then there would be acceptably minimal design
limitations for software.

Assuming all computation and networking is quantum, then for
information to convey meaning via the universal language referenced
above, the grammar and meaning needs to be composed into the
non-deterministic state of quantum circuit components.

. Once the , entities
receive it over channels paired with entanglement.





### Totality of Physical Eclipse

- (is there a better explanation of this?)
- the convergence of individual belief systems accelerates and the
  more strongly convergent metaphyiscal ideas begin manifesting in the
  physical aspects of social interactions.
  - so, if instead of mass communication channels being completely
    decentralized, the information diseminated was harmonized, then
    the more unitary, regular and pronounced these metaphysical
    manisfestations will become.
  - so, in terms of social physics, there are stronger physical
    effects that emerge from the metaphysical than ever before. This
    is true even in the discord of decentralized high bandwidth
    digital communication. Because of the evolutionary dynamics of
    ideas and memes, the strongest earn extremely high rates of
    propagation.

### The Ablation of Causality

- (remove focus on privacy from the following)
- (none of this means technology or social media or IoT is inherently
  bad by the way, just that our world is evolving towards a
  fundamentally different one and this evolution is inevitable)
  - so we have to understand it because the following philosophical,
    psychological, and sociocultural changes are fundamentally
    different in a way that is very difficult to understand

- the most important: in a post-convergence world, causality itself
  operates in a fundamentally different way, which can be
  anticipated by observing the evolution of various graphs

- social media, data science, internet of things, etc are part of a
  continuing trend of technology and quantification of human behavior
  that has been eroding privacy for decades.
  - this causes a fundamental shift in the way people interact
  - information can now spread through the social graph in
    fundamentally different ways.
    - the social graph has always existed, but until the 19th century
      was almost entirely limited to communication via edges which
      were physical in some way)
    - instead of a world where every person has six degrees of
      separation, we are gradually converging towards a social
      paradigm where "degrees of separation" is mostly meaningless,
      (in and of itself (?))
      - it's because the graph that represents all the paths that
        information can take to reach some other human node is
        converging towards the complete graph
        - albeit a complete graph where nearly all edges would be
          removed upon sparsification, but the phenomenon of
          near-completeness is there
    - at the same time, we are producing and processing data at an
      exponential rate.
      - there are finitely many human behaviors that can be quantified

- there is a paradigm shift in the phenomenon of causality, as it
    applies to human behavior and psychosocial dynamics,
    - causality, in this sense, stems from exchange of information,
      completeness of information, awareness of information,
      dissemination of information, etc.
      - there are many other important factors that help define how
        humans perceive causation in their behavioral interactions,
        whether those are individuals or groups of people ....
      - however, causality and the way humans utilize their
        understanding of it to construct a (set?) of beliefs/knowledge
        about the world is in a very big way parameterized by the
        paradigm of information exchange/retention/diffusion/etc
    - therefore, in an increasingly connected world, there is a major
      shift in how narratives are constructed and propagated.
  - this paradigm shift for causality affects any information
    processing entity, including both people and computers
    - this shift affects these groups in different ways
    - people store & process & propagate information
      differently than computers
      - i.e. they tend to be arbitrary and "imperfect" in how they
        handle information
      - the conclusions that can be reached by understanding the shift
        in causality very greatly depending on the specifics, so
        assertions based on generalities may do more harm than good
        (e.g. this explanation itself of the shift in causality is
        overly general)
  - this ablation of causality gradually roots itself accross the
    world at varying rates.

- the concept of privacy is one of the most important ways this shift
  in causality will affect human interactions and their understanding
  of the world from what they infer to be cause & effect in events
  - individuality will be blurred, people may adopt more
    groupthink-motivated behaviors. these two things are fairly simple
    to understand as our privacy is eroded
  - if or when we reach a society with a near-total lack of privacy,
    information propagates with a degree of completeness that implies
    people are significantly impaired in their ability to reason about
    the nature of cause and effect
    - this is because every exchange in units of information
      essentially initiates its own new chain of cause/effect and
      because of the total-convergence of the systems used to exchange
      information/data, ... (there is more data and more events
      tendinging to inflate this phenomenon exponentially
      ("tetrationally"... lulz))
    - for example, making conclusions about the disemination of pieces
      of information (how one piece of information spreads amoungst
      people) may become simply impossible
      - this is strongly dependent on the specific networks of
        people/hardware/telecom and other factors (rewrite and
        explain)
        - basically some groups can push back against this trend
          (i.e. military, government), but they still have to deal
          with a world where the majority of people are connected to
          networks where causality (becomes unknowable and
          unpredictable)



# (Social Physics Overview)

Information has a life of its own and nowhere does this become more
clear than in social physics, which is a mathematical framework for
modeling idealized social behavior with physical constraints. It's
mind blowing, but the bad news is that almost every problem is
incomputable. Never fear! The human brain is practically a quantum
machine-learning monster and incredibly useful insights can be
extrapolated from a philosophic exploration of social physics.

Social physics was originally developed in the 19th century (links) to
explain how the behavior of players in simplified games were affected
by the imposition of physical (rules/constraints). It originally
borrowed heavily from classical mechanics and now overlaps with
quantum mechanics, since non-deterministic games are loaded with
probabilistic mechanics. Social physics can help us understand team
sports,
[Swarm Behavior](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarm_behaviour), the
geometric mechanics of battle tactics, cocktail parties and the finer
mysteries of feng shui. Each of those activities (determined by the
physics of the space) space and players in a social game with rules,
though with feng shui, the game and players may be less clearly
defined.

If you begin modeling games where players have their own sets of
information, social physics becomes irrevocably and hopelessly
incomputable, almost immediately. There are several layers to this,
where each adds complexity that extends the hardness of the problems.

#### &#x2605; Do the players contain their own copies of information or is it shared?

#### &#x2605; Do instances of information adhere to a defined schema shared among all players?

#### &#x2605; Can the information schema be modified?

#### &#x2605; Can the information be known in totality for the game?

#### &#x2605; Can a player access their own information in totality or reflect on its schematic structure?

#### &#x2605; Do players need to make inferences based on the information schemas of other players?

It isn't clear (which of the above) will add the most complexity, but
in social situations players almost always operate with incomplete
understanding. They can do so effectively because they've been
conditioned with proactive and reactive behaviors that
(...). Information overload can negatively affect players. The
(questions) pertaining to information schema and information
reflection add an incomprehensibly infinite degree of complexity. For
the mathemtaticians, yes, modifiable schemas with or without
reflection are definitely uncountable.



All of this means that players have to be good at handling
information, but better at balancing uncertainy and risk with
goal-seeking behavior. If the game being modeled is soccer or some
other team sport, there are subtle sociophysical aspects that can
vastly improve team performance, such as ensuring visibility and other
mechanics of communication. If the team works together and can share
its understanding of the state of the field, this can help immensely
with coordinating tactics.

There are other physical aspects of soccer which are also modeled by
social physics, such as the typical FIFA 2017 stats: speed, energy,
skill, etc. The best players in the world can play together, but
unless they can read each other and anticipate the coordination of
tactics with limited signaling, the games will be reduced to the more
physical stats and positioning.

Social physics is distinguished by providing a framework for systems
where players react to informational components as well as their
dynamics.

- (explain the above)


###

- information economics and sociophysical aspects of information
  - these mathematical frameworks/solutions almost always incomputable
    - and knowing this, how do you identify what can be modeled or
      known? and how do you structure your processes and behaviors to
      collect data to efficiently model information dynamics and
      social phenomena
  - elaborate on information economics (as distinct from economics of
    content...)

### The Economics of Content Production/Consumption Lead to Market Saturation

- the economics of content production/consumption in a converging or
  converged world
  - this is where the [somewhat poorly organized] articles paradox of
    creativity and death of creativity are relevant

- [Paradox of Creativity](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html)

here's an essay on the death of novelty and originality as the limits
on information diffusion are annihilated by the singularity. the
information overload, particularly its skewed nature, results in
generations of people who are completely severed from the past. if we
understand this moving forward, we can use social engineering to
preserve the pieces of our identity and culture which will otherwise
be completely lost.

### (Delineate b/w people, autonomous information-processing agents and instances of information)

- basically, in what forms can information be stored (quickly) and
  who/what can process it?
- autonomous agents and containers of information
  - how information moves, replicates and mutates
  - in the past, information could be totally restricted by physically
    restricting the vessel(s) of that information.
    - how this changes with a completely connected world where
      information can be freely reproduced at zero cost

### (Describe how (instances of information) are composed of references to imagery, signified by semiotics)

- the semiotics of information, content, media, art, culture,
  language, society, etc.
  - particularly, the distribution of information about symbols
    (signifiers) among people
  - moving forward into more connected societies, how brand
    recognition, content awareness, etc is fundamentally more
    difficult to create/maintain.
    - it is more expensive, possibly prohibitively expensive to market

### 

- agents and vessels of information structure
  representations/references to information
  - these references can be understood in many different dimensions
    - geographically: where does the information exist, physically? it
      matters
    - in aggregate: how many references are there to the information?
      - how is it distributed?
    - why is the information relevant to people?
  - information is diffused primarily through communication networks:
    IRL, social media, etc.
    - can also be diffused through other representations, some of
      which are phsycial: billboard ads, street art, stickers, ...
    - recently, non-human agents like bots can be automated and
      controlled to influence people.
      - this is cheap, difficult to trace to a person
  - but more of our information is delivered through some virtual
    network built on top of the internet, often managed by a newsfeed
    algorithm

- these information representations are linked to abstract semiotic
  signs, which people interpret individually.
  - the democratization of content production along with diminshing
    economic opportunities will lead to overload of content
  - (move insights from below on how this creates unmarketable
    cultural noise that prevents semiotic interpretations from being
    created/managed)

- (the content overload mentioned above) makes it increasingly complicated to
  understand/predict how information will be interpreted.
  - further, the economics and inability to market information render
    it difficult for authorities or institutions to respond *to a
    culture that is evolving exponentially faster*
  - it's just important to see this coming, so that we can respond to
    it now with an understanding of what technocultural turbulence
    will be like before we encounter it.

###  ###

- for example, in the 50's when there were three TV channels,
  - (1) how efficiently could we deliver a message to the american people?
  - (2) how confidently could we be that they recognized the language of
    symbols used in that communication in some predictable way?
  - for the first issue, there are answers that have already been
    implemented. there are SMS notification services for emergencies.
    - however, i'm not worried about instantaneous notification in an
      emergency.
    - () how can any group leverage communication channels for general
      purposes *in a predictable way* when there are exponentially
      many channels, many of which are algorithmically controlled
      - machine learning algorithms can't be indexed
    - the exponential expansion and variety of channels (in the purest
      sense of the word) create a situation where it becomes difficult
      or prohibitively expensive to inform and relate to the general
      public
  - that takes care of the first question above, which is trivial to
    anticipate. the second issue is much more complicated. through
    communication and consumption of information, individuals in
    society create their own understanding of how symbols, called
    signifiers in semiotics, map to the concepts they signify.
    - if you want to predict how an individual or group will respond
      to messaging, you need to know how they interpret the language
      you use to convey your ideas.
      - some of this language is textual or verbal
      - much of it, particularly the strongest signaling, uses
        language that trigger associations with imagery.
        - it's harder for people to understand these associations
          because sometimes they are subconscious.
    - effective communications leverages this language of symbols that
      are inculcated through a common, shared experience. that's what
      allows marketers to be confident they will provoke a strong,
      emotional reaction.
      - but if you take away the homogeny of symbols, it's difficult
        to predict how usage of these ad hoc languages of imagery will
        affect recipients.
        - in marketing, you want to nudge the recipient along a
          decision tree by leveraging associations that make your
          product pitch more appealing or even relevant. you might
          also use vivid imagery to create a strong first impression
          of your brand.
        - in public relations, when trying to unify a country full of
          people fighting over issues provoked by foreign influence,
          is it easier or harder for institutions to appeal to
          citizens to react uniformly? no, it's exponentially more
          complicated because the influence any one channel can
          project is limited AND the language of imagery has been
          diluted.
      - without prediction and quantification, one can't ... public
        relations strategies makes it difficult to design...

- constant inculcation of a fairly homogenous set of primary symbols,
  that are recognized almost universally across the culture
  - e.g. freedom, liberty, the declaration of independence, etc in
    America.
  - e.g. Star Wars, Harry Potter and other super-IP's that are
    recognized almost universally
  - these cultural symbols can signify different associations to many
    different people, but they are distinct from less widely diffused
    symbols in that:
    - they are universally recognized among a culture
    - they have a cohesive, mostly homogenous set of meanings as a
      basis.
    - crucially, there is an assumption that almost everyone in a
      society can communicate with these symbols, both with words and
      by provoking imagery
      - i.e. the difference between using a (basic) reference to tv show
        Star Trek and using a complicated spock versus lizard-man
        reference
        - the first can be interpreted by almost everyone in America
          and, even if they don't understand your specific meaning
          using Star Trek (just the TV show) as a reference, they can
          anticipate what most people would
      - again, the difference is that there are symbols that have
        diffused with consistency such that almost everyone can expect
        other people to identify common signified concepts
        - then there are those, where not only will few people
          recognize the symbol, if they do, signified interpretations
          can not be anticipated with much degree of certainty without
          additional information layered in to clarify
    - there are about 100 cultural universals shared by humanity.
      these are a completely different subject, but most of them
      function as symbols people recognize that can be used as
      imagery.
      - but there are symbols shared amoung groups, societies and
        cultures that are virtually universal within those groups.

- the point i'm trying to make is that when the economics of content
  creation/distribution/consumption are disrupted as they almost
  certainly will be, this phenomenon of the creation and maintainence
  of a language of shared imagery slows to a trickle. those widely
  diffused symbols with cohesive, signified interpretations that can
  be conveyed with confidence simply do not reach the level of
  distribution in society for them to be considered universal.
  - while this may seem trivial or abstract, it may pose unanticipated
    communication difficulties for many cultures and nations.
    - so, for example, if you needed a strong set of images to provoke
      a patriotic sense of duty among your citizens, but you don't
      have an education system, then you likely haven't deployed that
      language of imagery and associations among your citizens.
      - therefore, in this situation, predicting how messaging to your
        citizens will affect how they react is almost impossible.
    - America won't deal with problems as severe as not having an
      education system, but we are a long ways away from a system of
      three TV channels, where it is trivial to know what information
      people have consumed and how they interpret messaging.
      - that is not to say that we should artificially limit channels
        of communication

- this is a warning that foreign adversaries now have unparalleled
  reach into our nation to slowly build out their own languages of
  imagery or subvert ours to exert more influence over citizens, to
  constrain narratives and to
  - so, how does their capacity to mutate the more logical aspects of
    human communication (semiotics, imagery, association) change when
    America's capacity to cultivate these primary elements of
    communication is greatly diminished?
    - it means that, as cultural artifacts become indistinguishable
      and innumerable while recognition/relevance of those artifacts
      is some minimal amount of people, it affects human language and
      communcation in a profound way by shifting beneath our feet the
      mechanics, proficiency and predictability of utilizing language
      layered with imagery.
- while it is hard to quantify whether this phenomena will actually be
  exhibited to a relevant degree, it is also important to note that
  this happens very early for America and the West and happens much
  later for most of the rest of the world.
  - this means that leaders who signal over communication networks
    hoping to call their citizens to action will be less able to
    clearly convey a message that delivers on creating a predictable
    emotional response.

- example: progression of meme culture in the 2010's
  - how has the uniformity in meaning changed for individual memes?
  - how has the predictability of a signified concept changed amoung
    meme recipients.
  - how has the proliferation of meme's changed?
    - do new memes spread slow or fast? do old meme's die young in
      2017?
  - is it easier or harder to create a new meme that catches on and
    takes the world by storm, making you an unlikely and unwilling
    celebrity?
    - it doesn't fucking happen does it? that was really fast. all of
      five fucking years, but these are meme's ... who tf cares?
  - meme's are not very important. they are cheap to make and
    ephemeral, but most meme-like images shared on FB/Twitter today
    are almost unique. it is less likely to see new memes pick up wild
    momentum, though it does happen (i'd argue it is because we need
    these nearly-universally recognizable symbols and so we
    arbitrarily skyrocket the usage of almost random images because
    they tightly map to some facet of life we all need to communcate.

- another example: the recent explosion of conspiracies, most of which
  are young, incomprehensible and fake. (not necessarily "fake news")
  - in particular, i'm talking about the youtube conspiracy
    documentaries that you see.
    - people made an hour-long youtube documentary

#### a political example: wtf is the deep state?

  - should this occur earlier?
  - perfect example of imagery that is being remapped so that it
    doesn't cohere to any dominant interpretation
  - while it seems that conservatives have one definition and liberals have
    another, the c...

#### another example: fake news.

  - fake news is what it is, but it layers into our culture pattern
    languages (and sets off these viral outbreaks of...)
  - it is not necessarily bad, but fake news is an effective tactic of
    information warfare that layers down exactly what the fuck i am
    talking about above that flies over the head of most people.
    - it creates these languages of imagery where those symbols are
      laid down and propagated through our culture.
    - later on, content can reference those symbols to trigger
      confusion or distraction.
  - most people won't understand the way i state my ideas above, but
    they do understand the confusion of fake news, which btw, i'm not
    sure how to define. are we talking about cosmo pizza and
    pedophiles?
    - regardless of the quirkly, distracting stories, i do not have
      confidence in our media today at all. liberal media is pushing
      toxic narratives that

# Anticipating Information Warfare

- understanding everything thus far and reacting to the situation
  early, in anticipation of information warfare

### why is all warfare essentially information warfare?

### what is usually meant by information warfare?

    - competition over information and its distribution to influence
      the behavior of groups
      - these groups can be larger scale: social, political, military
      - and smaller scale: units of troops or insurgents, individuals
        suspected of espionage, departments in a corporation
      - typically, the more surgical the targeting, the less
        information is created as a result.
    - the definition of "information warfare" blurs with ideas from
      PR, communications, marketing and branding, which are
      essentially objective competition over information and its
      distribution
      - but if used in a military sense, often implies achieving some
        tactically or strategically relevant change in behavior by
        creating, distorting, diffusing, etc. information
    - information warfare is distinct from other forms of war in many
      different ways, including that information can be created and is
      much more difficult to destroy.
      - in economic warfare, you're competing over resources,
        opportunities and relationships which are exchanged
      - in armed conflict, you and your adversary have more clearly
        defined resources which can be created, moved, destroyed, etc.
        - these resources, at least at a higher level, are more
          clearly defined and quantified.
      - also, it's important to distinguish that these resources can
        be clearly added/removed from the conflict, whereas
        information is everywhere and is created as a result of
        changes in the environment, the action of people or autonomous
        agents, etc.
        - it's something that is created everywhere by everything, but
          isn't so easily destroyed.
        - information may be more fundamental to the universe than
          matter. it is thought to be preserved by black holes, etc.
        - but information has a life of its own and is difficult to to
          restrict its diffusion without either coercing the container
          of information or destroying it entirely


  - some examples of tactics in information warfare
    - most techniques from marketing or branding
    - restricting diffusion of information, generally or from specific
      groups of people
    - manipulating the presentation of information

### when is information warfare advantageous?

    - when the adversary is strong:
      - they are more capable of pushing a large volume of information
        (information flux)
      - they are more likely to be perceived as credible
      - they can react quickly and powerfully in the short term
      - they can be more confident about the permanence of their
        long-term narratives
      - because their information is dominant, people default to
        usually comparing other information to the default worldview
    - when the adversary is weak:
      - they can influence the strong, without overt warfare, and
        promote narratives counter to short & long-term objectives of
        their enemies
      - this is particularly effective in the long-term when they can
        establish information/narratives to be used later on that, at
        the time, don't seem threatening or the adversary's goal is
        not obvious
        - when the weak adversary gains strength, the information they
          pushed subversively can become more useful.
    - when the boundaries of a country's communication networks are
      porous and highly connected this is both an advantage and
      disadvantage

# boundaries of communication networks in information warfare

    - when the boundaries are more tightly locked down:
      - there are negative aspects:
        - it becomes harder to establish relationships with the
          outside
        - your population's understanding of the world becomes skewed
          and it is very easy to make long-term strategic blunders
          - the everyday people and the leadership are detached from
            reality and unware of trends and options.
        - economically and politically, you are at an incredible
          disadvantage.
          - it is typically harder to engage in free trade without
            restrictions or government regulation
          - it's easier for trade partners to discover
            products/relationships in societies that are not closed

      - there are benefits in the long-term:
        - because your adversaries or other neutral players have not
          been able to diffuse information into your society with much
          proficiency, the logical copies of information within the
          minds of your population are fewer in number and much weaker
          in proportion to alternative information
          - so, therefore, it's easier to suppress information you
            don't like because *it never took root at all*
          - also, you just never have to deal with it. information
            contrary to the mainstream almost doesn't exist.
          - many countries seem to prefer this because they don't want
            information they can't control to disrupt or dilute their
            culture, which is something that many Westerners don't
            understand or even find offensive.
            - these countries may be trying to protect their cultural
              identity in the long-term. if they open their doors with
              no restrictions, then foreigners with more money and
              power will control what information becomes dominant.

      - IMO, these few benefits are grossly outweighed by the lost
          economic opportunities. these are things that mostly benefit
          people in power in those countries, but also can be an
          attempt to preserve cultural identity in spite of
          modernization

- narrative of american interventionalist foreign policy as being
  evil, self-serving and (etc..)
  - by the way, i don't believe this narrative and find it to be
    offensive. policy and politics are never simple, especially when
    it comes to conflict. the same action can be interpreted in many
    ways, this narrative is ludicrous and toxic. America stands up for
    human rights, civil rights and justice in the world. America uses
    our power responsibly for the greater good and we do so to defend
    freedom, justice and economic development around the world.
  - A dominant force that doesn't wisely and justly exercise its power
    will inevitably destabalize itself. in the later 20th century, we
    were lucky to have America as a superpower willing to stand up
    because Soviet Communism was destined to require an empire to
    sustain itself economically.

  - the adoption of this narrative by radicals could lead to
    exploitation via information warfare. in the short-term, it has
    disrupted our response in the beginning of the War on Terror
    - it demoralized the public and prevented us from acting in unison
      to support our military.
    - it resulted in a political swing to the left b/w 2004-2008

  - in the long-term, (if america were to cede its superpower status,)
    this narrative may become dominant. a dominant power could use
    narrative like a page in a coloring book to paint the united
    states foreign policy as evil
    - (as a dominant power), they would be able to build on top of this
      and distort it however they want to keep us in check.
    - if the narrative wasn't a defining component of so many
      citizens' worldviews, then our enemies wouldn't have the
      opportunity to build on top of it in the future.
      - i personally don't believe the narrative at all and think the
        opposite, with maybe a few exceptions, is true. america is a
        force for good in the world.

- ... or wasn't a primary factor empassioning liberals to encourage
  demoralization

- american (vulnerability) - which one would you want to be?
  - a broken down beater, unlocked with nothing in it
  - a mercedez with the windows rolled down four inches. it has a
    state of the art security system, but lined with luxury's like a
    handicapped claw game
  - a bulletproof limo with tinted windows, SCIF certified, secure
    VOIP and a convoy







# (Implications of (your perspective on) Social Physics, Networks and Information Dynamics)

- possibly remove
- why attempting to quantify information structure/dynamics/diffusion,
  along with sociophysical models and game theory leads to deep
  philosophical conclusions about the significance/nature of
  information.
  - if you don't understand what i'm writing about, then it's easy to
    assume that a worldview based on a subjective-but-passionate
    understanding of some ideology (i.e. humanism or marxism) is
    sufficient for dictating or restraining policy.
  - if you don't understand this content (and it isn't easy) then you
    don't actually understand enough about life, society and, in
    particular, human behavior to predict how policy will affect
    people.
    - if your a passionate humanist and your goal is to help people,
      wouldn't it be useful to understand people, group dynamics, game
      theory to inform your political views?
    - if it's important to you to actually achieve the lofty goals and
      ideals that drive your passion, then you absolutely have to
      understand this subject, otherwise you are forever at a
      disadvantage, unware that you are a piece in someone else's
      game, a leaf blowing about in a windstorm.
- you might be a well-reasoned person living in a land of milk and
  honey who wishes for only the alleviation of human suffering, but
  the world is not full of sunshine and rainbows. life is a game and
  there are many players.
  - if your values and ideals are worth hard work and sacrifice to
    attain, then you have to understand how the other players in this
    game will react to you.







original content:
===============

FB Post citing [this article](http://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/politics/uw-professor-the-information-war-is-real-and-were-losing-it/?utm_source=facebook&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=article_left_1.1)

mentioned my articles relevant to info warfare:

#### [Operational Lvl of Information Warfare](http://te.xel.io/posts/2017-02-21-civil-disobedience-and-operational-strategy-in-information-warfare.html)

...

#### [Death of Creativity](http://te.xel.io/posts/2016-05-17-the-death-of-creativity.html)

here's an essay on how the death of novelty/originality
(i.e. creativity) leads to a complete connected, converged culture
full of creative people who can't produce anything that is
distinguishable. all cultural artifacts at that point will be
essentially noise, where no artifacts develop a significant or
marketable following among content producers or consumers.

this is worrying because, from a perspective informed by semiotics and
distribution/recognition of symbols, there are no IP's or new content
that can cultivate a following, no matter how large the marketing
budget. if content is king, content production tools are democratized
and content is the only content most people can monetize, but
fundamentally can *neither* be marketed affordably *nor* effectively,
then all of it is meaningless and everything is noise.

because of this and because our culture, language and society depends
so heavily on patterns of recognizable symbols for social engineering,
pattern languages and cultural programming, this ends in disaster
because each of these three things become much less capable of
functioning without semiotic recognition/distribution of symbols.

### in summary

the future is a desolate wasteland of cultural noise, full of cheap
recombinations of the same shit that nobody recognizes. except Star
Wars because Star Wars can afford a billion dollar budget. but nothing
in this future is significant.

what does that mean for information warfare? we are not ready for it
at all. this creates a situation where a strong, powerful adversary
can exert influence over networking/telecom/media/etc to close it
down. it creates a situation where the dynamics, tactics and
strategies of information warfare shift beneath our feet when people
are so distracted by the social media circus they don't see it coming.

best of all, bc of the shady Russian shit, LIBERALS FINALLY HAVE TO
ACCEPT THAT FOREIGN INFLUENCE CAN INJECT INCREDIBLY DEMORALIZING
INFLUENCES ON OUR SOCIETY. they can undermine our decisions, determine
our policy and convince us to tear ourselves apart.




