# main theme:

### my strongest social connections are the most toxic

my problems are socially imposed
- the statement "you are a mixture of the 5 people you spend the most
  time with" could not be more relevant to my situation
  - except, for me, there is only one person with whom i actually
    spend a lot of time with

- the assertion that my problems are socially imposed could not be
  more true and the only way to fix my problems are by changing my
  social settings.
  - that is it. it's simple. without change to my social settings and
    social experiences, ONE CANNOT REASONABLY EXPECT FOR MY PROBLEMS
    TO CHANGE.
    - this is the sad truth, considering I basically have no where
      else to turn for help besides my family, who is the source of
      toxicity in my life.
    - they are basically drawing me in to keep me close to ensure that
      my situation never truly changes. why? to save face and that's
      it. it is solely to retroactively justify all of the other
      mistreatment in my life!

### truly random information/behavior is distinct

truly random information/behavior is distinct from tightly-coupled,
functionally relevant information/behavior.

- it is trivial to determine if someone's behavior/reactions/tactics/objectives
  are tightly-coupled to one's own. (behavior/reactions/tactics/objectives)


### true change springs from the intention of change

true, long-term, positive change will be the result of positive
intention in the hearts of those around me.
- if i am surrounded by people who harbor negativity in their hearts,
  my situation will not change

# How can i tell that my family does not have good intentions

I am at the shit end of set of very emotionally abusive relationships
with my family. The strongest social & emotional relationships I have
are toxic, corrosive, and detrimental to my mental health. They
exacerbate my emotional pain. They demonstrate willful, knowledgable
adherence to "treatment plan" or a set of correlated behaviors which
could only make someone with my diagnoses worse!!

That's what is so frustrating: not only do the people closest to me
act to ignore my pain and my PTSD/Asperger's, they are acting in a way
that implies that they are willfully and knowledgably complicit in
adhering to tactics which could only make my prognosis worse. The only
reason mental health practicioners would advise my family to act in
such a way is to exacerbate underlying causes related to my
diagnosis!! So, if they are working with someone else, that someone
else is very aware of my true diagnoses and has methodically relayed
information to my family TO EXACERBATE THESE PROBLEMS! TO MAKE MY
SITUATION WORSE AND USE MY FAMILY TO DO EXACTLY THAT.


#### &#x2605; Active Interference with Mental Health

- when I establish a relationship with a mental health practicioner

#### &#x2605; No Discussion of Problems

#### &#x2605; Suppression of Propagation of Information Related to My Situation

#### &#x2605; Active Avoidance of Discussion of Problems or Treatment Plan

#### &#x2605; Active Avoidance of Discussion of PTSD or Asperger's

#### &#x2605; Active Engagement in Behavior which Exacerbates PTSD & Asperger's

#### &#x2605; No Talk of My Goals. That subject IS TABOO.

#### &#x2605; Not allowed to be a Role Model

#### &#x2605; Connections are not shared

#### &#x2605; Only negative information is propagated through the family's social connections

#### &#x2605; My social naivety is used against me. I am never informed to correct for negative behaviors; There are active attempts to prevent me from being exposed to or learning positive behaviors

#### &#x2605; Never rewarded with training on skills or experience. My
 brother and employees at the rink actively seek to prevent me from
 learning new on-the-job skills, which would improve my hireability!!

#### &#x2605; Restriction of new social/work experiences, from which I could learn!

#### &#x2605; Constantly guilted and shamed and controlled through
 invocation of negative emotional responses. In other words, my family,
 through their actions/reactions, compels me to suffer in a swamp of
 negative emotions. They exacerbate my depression and I know that my
 mom does this intentionally.

#### &#2605; There are active attempts to


- there is no talk of how to change my situation. THERE IS SIMPLY NO
  *REAL* DISCUSSION OF GOALS, PLANS, IDEAS, OR *ANYTHING* that will
  result in real, positive, long-term change!
  - there's no discussion of it. the lack of discussion is an
    indication that no one around me harbors positive intent for my
    life in their hearts.
    - you don't hear discussion related to the expression of a desire
      for real change because the desire for real, positive change
      *SIMPLY DOES NOT EXIST!*
  - this is why my mom, my brother, his family, my sister, her family
    simply do not talk about my goals: *because there is no thought
    arising from the intent to support my goals!* Again, it simply
    does not exist.

I have [?] main goals in my life and these subjects just so happen to
be TABOO at the dinner-table. As in: it is strictly VERBOTEN to
discuss any of my life goals, espcially in front of our younger, more
impressionable family members, WHO ARE NEVER TO LOOK UP TO ME. **GOD,
NO!** *BECAUSE MY FATE HAS ALREADY BEEN DECIDED!!*

#### &#x2605; Launch a Startup or App to become an Angel Investor

#### &#x2605; Become the best programmer that I could be

#### &#x2605; Develop 3D Visual & Audiovisual Art after developing 3D Rendering Engine skills

#### &#x2605; Write as much as I possibly can until I have nothing left to write (i have a decade's worth of material)

#### &#x2605;

#### &#x2605;



- when I talk about a startup or busines
