---
title: "The Speed of Thought: (Overview)"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- thesis for part one:
  - the world today differs fundamentally because of converged nature
    of communication networks
    - essentially, communication was formerly bound by social physics,
      but these physical limitations no longer constrain information
    - social physics is still relevant and important to understand,
      especially when/if information networks are disrupted.
  - old ideas that were more difficult to understand become visible
    and undeniable

### What Is The Speed of Thought Today?

Impulses between neurons can travel over 100 meters per second. These
impulses are designed to be more rapid for motor neurons.

Consider the speed at which a thought can travel across the world and
how has it changed over time. After all, our individual thoughts lead
to words and actions, which ripple through social networks both
natural and virtual. Throughout history, this velocity of information
has steadily increased until it exploded in the 19th century with the
telegraph. (The development of telecom shed the physical constraints
and (multiplied) the virtual channels available for communication.)

Wherever there is supply and demand, you'll find economic dynamics and
information is no exception. While no one in Germany counted all the
Bibles in 1350, the (notion) that documents are tangible and countable
changes how people react to perceived supply and demand. Unwritten
records are much harder to pin down, but what's the use in bartering
for a juicy piece of gossip if you don't get it early on? Information
(conveys) power when it is scarce, even when it may not be true. When
a rumor is held tightly, it is easier to trace. While we never poll
our friends to tally up an information histogram, our mind is always
making inferences because the distribution of information usually
tells us more than the info itself. Small talk may be all about the
weather and the Yankees, but it can tell us about who talks to who and
more.

Macroscopically, technology's effect on information diffusion produced
viral sociocultural transformation, often with political or economic
consequences. Writing was developed once and never forgotten.
Religious systems petrified on exposure to clay tablets, gradually
locking these ephemeral systems of thought in place. The printing
press democratized writing, effectively seizing it from the priest
class by undermining the economics that enabled tight control.

Each major innovation opened a new movement in our impressionistic
arrangement of cross-cultural collaboration. Each led to its own
gradual crescendo as it reverberated across the world, inspiring a
chorus where each new voice was increasingly pronounced, distinct and
memorable. Each of these movements was a spontaneous contribution
forwards in information mechanics, dynamics and expression. This
progression offered many potential paths as it moved us towards an
increasingly singular zenith. Our (understanding) of the
(destination), the journey, and each macroscopic fragment can be
(completed) by dissecting the fundamentals of communication and
information.

### The beginning of the end for the illusion of separation?

Without intelligent life, the universe might never manifest awareness
of itself. Humanity has reached a transitionary period where
communication networks allow our ideas to pollinate maximally. This (
moment) symbolically represents humanity's awareness of ourselves
(reaching a kind of fullness) as it ripens. Our understanding of
ourselves reaches a state of (totality or completeness) to a degree of
(personal) significance, the magnitude of which we may only ever
witness once.

The same confluence of phenomena to usher in this eudaimonic
actualization of being humanity lead to tectonic shifts in
sociophysical mechanics. While the set of rules for interaction
remains unchanged, the observed phenomena and dynamics (diverge).
When the Big Bang transitioned through inflation, the laws of physics
dominating interactions remained constant. The rules didn't change,
but unique dynamics emerged because the specifics of the system caused
various rules to be more significant, resulting in some behaviors that
were never seen again.

> quick note on scientific rigor of social physics...

So, there will be paradigm shifts in how sociophysical mechanics weave
together to influence interaction and how people think about it.
Population density and broadband access profoundly impact how these
shifts unfold. It's not clear which is (worse): shifts that seem
seismic or those we barely notice shifting beneath our feet.

We are seeing some of these effects now. For example, potential
election manipulation and -- holy shit -- did anyone log into social
media in 2016? Information amplification is rampant.  Manipulation of
information is as old as predator and prey, except that the fabric of
information and communication is shifting. It's like a space that's
bending and folding into itself. Most of us still see everything as
though we are within that space, but some of us know how to use it to.

![probably include a picture of an s-curve]

# The other side of the S-Curve

There are reasons that an S-Curve emerges where it does. It opens with
exponential growth and, like an unfortunate perfectionist, all it
knows is overachievement and blue skies. Then, suddenly, this curve's
distribution hit's a wall: it's a negative externality. Yet, since
it's never known life outside the petri dish, this curve decides to
wish upon agar. Unfortunately, the s-curve's fate is sealed and the
system is just as closed as the petri dish.

Systems can be open, closed or various combinations of both. Each has
its own idiosyncracies. A system that will end as closed often looks
just like an open system that might never be closed. If you aren't
aware of what caused the system to be closed, you would expect trends
to continue indefinitely.

Most systems can be viewed as open or closed. If you try to view the
selection of public stocks as open, then you start with a good index
and familiarize its stocks one by one, gradually learning to trade. If
you instead choose to view the selection of stocks as closed, then,
like Warren Buffet, you might grab a copy of Moody's and memorize the
avaiable stocks, one by one. When you model available the wider
financial markets as a closed system, then every trade effectively
results in an equal and opposite shift in value from one asset to
another. This is several conditions hold: that no money enters or
leaves the system, amoung others. Closed systems allow you to make
reasonable inferences about preservation aggregate quantity.

### (Why does it matter?)

The noosphere, our shared information ecosystem, combines the traits
of open in closed along various measures. It's both open and closed in
a very complicated way. The transition from open to closed leads to
divergent phenomenological implications. When we notice that
sociophysical mechanics (appear to change dramatically), it is often
because our shared system of social interaction is more or less
constrained by some factors, which are functionally coupled to various
measures of "system boundedness".

While communication networks are converging, (...) people send and
receive radically more information. In this respect, system is bounded
not by how fast data can be transmitted, but by how much data people
have have to transmit. In this oversimplication, the system
fluctuates: telecom expands, people buy new phones with new apps, they
send gifs, telecom removes bandwidth limits, then people figure out
they can send videos.

When your system is an infinitely dimensional, convoluted non-linear
sociophysical system, it reacts with an incomprehensible set of
dynamics that are impossible to differentiate and dilineate. There are
critical categories of metrics that can help simplify the system.
Around clusters of values for these groups of metrics, there are
boundaries. Stay in the boundary, the system is more stable. Move
outside of a cluster's boundary region, the system will begin to
transition chaotically, but if you're lucky, with some degree of
predictability. Transitioning into and out of these boundaries can
describe a phase change, though these are phases composed of phase
metatypes.

If you imagine a group of metrics including information velocity and
social graph connectedness as (forming a category), then as long as
the velocity nor the connectedness skyrockets, the system prefers not
to undergo transformations that it has never exhibited. We all know
these two metrics are evolving exponentially, but this (is just one of
the few examples that can be easily put into words). Obviously,
technology and convergent communication networks also present us with
beneficial (transformation).

Superconduction is another physical phenomenon for which we can
imagine significant sociophysical metaphors. Superconduction describes
systems of descreasing thermal energy whose electrical resistance
suddenly becomes zero. It is a type of phase change which is not
linearly bound to the temperature; it is the sudden shift to zero
electrical resistence. Phases are not a primarily physical
phenonenon. They are an idea in math, where systems operate in a
functionally distinct way when their constituents individually satisfy
some properties over increasingly large spatial regions. This
generalized idea of phase changes in sociophysical systems will be
discussed in detail later.

Just like particle systems, sociophysical systems also experience
phase changes. Reduce the physical space's limits on velocity and
distance, then increase the quantity of information flux and suddenly
a vastly different set of principles applies. Models for sociophysical
systems with physical information transfer still apply and the same
set of mechanics apply, but are permuted in the way these mechanics
present themselves. This includes mechanics we may have never observed
before. Systems where the majority of interactions take place on
virtual channels utilize mechanics that cause the nature of
information itself to dominate the interactions. This leads to what
can be described as the geometric mechanics of information systems.

As our world becomes more closed in various ways and as our
communication infrastructure encourages sociophyscial phase changes,
different sets of principles can be considered to be fundamental in
modeling the system. When population growth and virtual channels cause
the world to create vastly more information than could ever be
consumed by humans, this also presents a series of phase changes
because the sheer volume of information in itself changes how people
behave. When we reach a knowledge plateau, which some describe as The
Singularity, the simple presence of a boundary on new knowledge means
that people operate differently based on the assumption that no
quantity of information produces significant knowledge. In
high-volume, high-flux sociophysical systems, information economics
becomes demand-side, where the abundance in supply reduces the
significance of qualitative differences in information. When people
generally decide this, in itself, changes their decision-making and
information-filtering processes, it results a kind of phase change.

### The Structure of the Noosphere and Anscombe's Paradox

Information converges in different ways at various scales along
various dimensions, which include spatial, aggregate and
graph-oriented dimensions. In other ways, info becomes non-convergent.
There are various kinds of mathematic metrics, including those based
on physical distance and those based on graph connections, where you
consider the number of edges connecting nodes. In the latter, the
degree is the metric or distance formula.

If you zoom out on the physical space or on more expansive subgraphs
of the social network, then aggregate the graph of information,
pressing it into one that represents all information for that set of
people, you'll find it the total model of information varies less as
it increases. This is especially true if you are considering the
aggregate graph of knowledge, instead of information. It is difficult
to distinguish the two. Knowledge is universally significant, where
information is more numerous and relatively defined. Modeling
knowledge and information as data presents challenges in precision
(and... compression).

Though the axioms haven't been well-defined above, as you zoom out and
aggregate a total graph for information, you'll find that there is
little apparent difference in the range, variety and distribution of
information. That is, the graph approaches a limit in how much it
varies in relation to your scale. This results in
[Anscombe's Paradox]() applied to graph theory. Zoomed out, you see
drastically limited variation in the info graph, but when you zoom
back into smaller physical or social ranges, the variation in the
aggregate info graphs displays pronounced variation. There are many
ways of structuring this thought experiment and there is no correct
way to do it.

At first, the implications seem subtle for Anscombe's Paradox as
applied to the summation of human knowledge or human information.
Imagine running through the same process for 15th century European
society, where almost every literate person has only read from a
single book: the Bible. As you zoom out, the effects of that literary
work on the info graph become pronounced. The knowledge graph is sadly
empty and the scope of shared knowledge is minimal, compared to that
instilled by today's public education system. As the 21st century
progresses, we'll find the paradox in graph variation at smaller
scales becomes more apparent and pronounced. Awareness of this
phenomena itself causes a phase change in how we design mass
communication.

### Which one of these is *the* fake news article?

This has profound implications for the design of communication,
particularly in how one can use a language of imagery and be confident
in the emotional interpretations.  In the 20th century America, mass
communication was at its height of power, parity and
confidence. However, in the world of social media, the rampant
speciation of information is exponential. We are less capable of
responding to an event, article or piece of information because of the
vast disparity in information between two or more individuals.
Further, the qualitative significance of each piece of information
depends on what presentations of that information an individual has
seen. So, when mainstream media tries to handle an event, it can't
identify a language of symbols to leverage that will evoke predictable
interpretations.

- this is a spectral understanding of information (spectrum of
  information)




Social physics models social behavior

- focus on analogies b/w physics and networking/social information
  - particularly on an analogy of the speed of sound and social
    xmission, as population density grows

# Most Important Conclusions from Social Physics

#### (1) decoherence of information/knowledge reduces... (ability to model the system)

- the single most important conclusion I can draw from a mathematical
  assessment of social physics is that the ability to make valid
  assumptions on information/beliefs and the behaviors of nodes is
  unparalleled
  - if you cannot do these things, you cannot expect to predict
    specific or general behavior and you cannot expect to extrapolate
- this leads into a discussion of schematic complexity

#### (2) Attention/Focus (does not permit Concurrency of action)

- a second critical factor is the lack of multitasking:
  - particles (at least people) can only really do one thing & can
    only think one thing at a time, which bounds how quickly state
    changes can occur
    - this doesn't apply to automonous agents operating on virtual
      channels, which are so far almost completely bound to aphysical
      manisfestations
  - similarly, people are bound to one place at a time

#### (3) Social Isolation can be Measured

- third: social isolation is quantifiable and almost always correlates
  with power. more isolated, less empowered.

- social isolation can be measured, given some "normal" facebook
  user's 2-degree graph of friends for some definition of normal
  (casual but regular) social media usage
  - filter the friends by strength of connection to indentify edges
    sending and receiving inbound and outbound messages/interactions
    - measure the degree of reciprication and the variety of people
      forming the strongest recent connections
    - filter out all connections which do not fit some minimum of
      interaction threshold
    - this sparsifies the graph, filtering a dense graph and leaving
      only the most relevant connections
  - from here, the person's isolation can be measured using spectral
    graph theory
    - this independence can be measured in graph theory with
      kelman's transformation
    - see spectral graph theory
      [here](http://www.cs.elte.hu/~csiki/application_Kelmans.pdf),
      [here](http://www.math.ucsd.edu/~mtait/k-independent.pdf)
      - and [here](https://www.cs.elte.hu/math/phd_th/csiki.v2.pdf)
      - the details of this math is over my head btw

- this, of course, assumes the person is a "normal" facebook user,
  where the relevant 1-degree and 2-degree connections in the friend
  graph are all also "normal" users
  - this high-level algorithm could also work with clustered types of
    facebook users
    - yet, the degree in variation in how people use applications to
      communicate and their distribution of time/usage across multiple
      applications makes clustering extremely difficult.
    - at least, if a clustering algorithm is to enable the selection
      of users which fit some basis with quantifyable variation and
      some metric of confidence


- over time, social isolation created some of the largest setbacks for
  the african american community. this strongly limited social
  mobility because african americans forged a disproportionate amount
  of strong connections with influential people with social/financial
  capital.

- in a purely digital world, manipulation of social media algorithms
  to exclude "undesirable" individuals to create disconnection among
  groups of people, defined logically instead of by ethnicity.
  - i don't mean this to be compared to segregation
  - in a convergent social network that is increasingly less engaged
    in "real" interactions and more engaged in "virtual" interactions,
    where some interactions can be voluntarily or involuntarily
    censored via SEO/Social Media manipulation, this means that entire
    groups of people can become silenced or disenfranchised without
    even knowing it.














  - and relevant to metamodernism
    - people are trying to stand out more and more.
    - cyclic interplay b/w post/modernism

- Which number is higher? Seven billion? Or Infinity? Is seven billion
  even comparable?

  - dominated interactions
  - (permuted) sociophysical mechanics

### Conclusions


- Paradoxically, (that which) enables our understanding and total
  self-awareness leads to paradigm shifts in the mechanics and
  dynamics of information that can very easily create
  instability. (rewrite)
  - the beauty that we will see is what we should have been able to
    see all along. of course, we should appreciate it, but if we let
    it distract us, we will find ourselves caught off guard.

  - the capacity for instability means that we have to work incredibly
    hard against (essentially game theory).
    - during this transitionary period, we will all have our own
      understanding of how the world has changed. there are
      opportunistic tactics that exploit the (novel) paradigms of
      information mechanics & dynamics, so almost everyone will be
      caught off guard in some way or another.

- we need to focus on how those fundamentals of
  communication/information, in the context of convergence/etc and
  exponential change, lead to ... (drastically different conclusions
  on what our purpose is and what our challenges are)

  - blinded by our ego
  - information saturation & overstimulation
  - individuality/privacy is diminished
  - causality becomes incredibly difficult to understand

  - ironically, even though we are able to observe ourselves in near
    totality, connect to almost anyone globally, and solve all our
    problems, our greatest threat is nihilism and our greatest fear
    will be ourselves.



