---
title: "The Speed of Thought: Illusion of Separation"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- todo: thesaurus check
- todo: define iota/datum/memes
- todo: titles

### What Is The Speed of Thought Today?

Impulses between neurons can travel over 100 meters per second.
Instead, consider the speed at which a thought can travel across the
world and how has it changed over time. After all, our individual
thoughts lead to words and actions, which ripple through social
networks both natural and virtual. Throughout history, this velocity
of information has steadily increased until it exploded in the 19th
century with the telegraph.

While communication was bound to physical interactions, a primarily
physical set of mechanics dominated social physics and the movement of
information. Today, the convergence of virtual communication channels
like social media causes physical mechanics to recede. From here,
social physics becomes dominated by metaphysical modes of action,
where propagation becomes dependent on the geometric mechanics of
information. So, the geometry and structure of the information itself
as it fits into its contexts determines its motion along virtual
channels.

# (Social Physics Metaphors)

Sociophysical systems exhibit a wide array of behavior that can be
modeled with physics metaphors. The movement of people in a mall have
a temperature, as they do at wider geographic scales. Density and
temperature correlate with interest and intent. Moreover, the density
of the group yields more connections and a faster rate of information
diffusion. From atop a ziggurat in Sumeria or Mesoamerica, some of the
basic sociophysical mechanics emerge visibily as patterns of
interaction in crowds.

![Teotihuacan](/img/posts/.../teotihuacan.jpg)

### (Speed of Sound)

Extending the parallels to temperature and density yields a metaphor
to the speed of sound, describing the potential speed at which general
information could travel. This can't effectively model diffusion of
specific pieces of information, since people exhibit choice over the
information they propagate. It instead assumes temperature and density
correlate with higher potential for interactions to occur. As you
geographically zoom out, the potential speed of information diffusion
becomes more closely coupled to temperature and population density.

### (Population growth)

From ancient times through the telegraph, all information flux was
bound to physical contact. Population growth itself gradually
accelerated growth of both information and information flux. Writing
established information permanence. Navigation and ship-building
increased the maximum range for information to spread, per degree of
exchange. Economics incentivized management of information to predict
trade and resource trends. Ancient people may have assumed the network
effect: as population increased, so did the likelihood of
technological innovations and thus, information might begin to spread
faster than it was driven by population density alone.

### (Information Economics)

Wherever there is supply and demand, you'll find economic dynamics and
information is no exception. While no one in Germany counted all the
Bibles in 1350, the (notion) that documents are tangible and countable
changes how people react to perceived supply and demand. Unwritten
records are much harder to pin down, but what's the use in bartering
for a juicy piece of gossip if you don't get it early on? Information
(conveys) power when it is scarce, even when it may not be true. When
a rumor is held tightly, it is easier to trace. While we never poll
our friends to tally up an information histogram, our mind is always
making inferences because the distribution of information usually
tells us more than the info itself. Small talk may be all about the
weather and the Yankees, but informs about who talks to who and more.

# 

Macroscopically, technology's effect on information diffusion produced
viral sociocultural transformation, often with political or economic
consequences. Writing developed once and never forgotten.  Religious
systems petrified on exposure to clay tablets, gradually locking these
ephemeral systems of thought in place. The printing press democratized
writing, effectively seizing it from the priest class by undermining
the economics that enabled tight control.

Each major innovation opened a new movement in our impressionistic
arrangement of cross-cultural collaboration. Each led to its own
gradual crescendo as it reverberated across the world, inspiring a
chorus where each new voice was increasingly pronounced, distinct and
memorable. Each of these movements was a spontaneous contribution
forwards in information mechanics, dynamics and expression. This
progression offered many potential paths as it moved us towards an
increasingly singular zenith. Our (understanding) of the
(destination), the journey, and each macroscopic fragment can be
(completed) by dissecting the fundamentals of communication and
information.

### The beginning of the end for the illusion of separation?

Without intelligent life, the universe might never manifest awareness
of itself. Humanity has reached a transitionary period where
communication networks allow our ideas to pollinate maximally. This
(moment) symbolically represents humanity's awareness of ourselves
(reaching a kind of fullness) as it ripens. Our understanding of
ourselves reaches a state of (totality or completeness) to a degree of
(personal) significance, the magnitude of which we may only ever
witness once.

- bonus points for using the word tantalizing above

The same confluence of phenomena to usher in this
[eudaimonic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eudaimonia) actualization
of being humanity leads to tectonic shifts in sociophysical
mechanics. While the set of rules for interaction remains unchanged,
the observed phenomena and dynamics (diverge). When the Big Bang
transitioned through inflation, the laws of physics dominating
interactions remained constant. The rules didn't change, but unique
dynamics emerged because the specifics of the system caused various
rules to be more significant, resulting in some behaviors that were
never seen again.

Many paradigm shifts (are...) in how sociophysical mechanics weave
together to influence interaction and how people think about it.
Population density and broadband access profoundly impact how these
shifts unfold. It's not clear which is (worse): shifts that seem
seismic or those we barely notice shifting beneath our feet.

We are seeing some of these effects now. For example, potential
election manipulation and -- holy shit -- did anyone log into social
media in 2016? Information amplification is rampant. Manipulation of
information is as old as predator and prey, except that the fabric of
information and communication is shifting. It's like a space that's
bending and folding into itself. Most of us still see everything as
though we are within that space, but some of us know how to use it to
(....)

# The other side of the S-Curve

There are reasons that an S-Curve emerges where it does. It opens with
exponential growth and, like an unfortunate perfectionist, all it
knows is overachievement and blue skies. Then, suddenly, this curve's
distribution hit's a wall: it's a negative externality. Yet, since
it's never known life outside the petri dish, this curve decides to
wish upon agar. Unfortunately, the s-curve's fate is sealed and the
system is just as closed as the petri dish.

![probably include a picture of an s-curve]

Systems can be open, closed or various combinations of both. Each has
its own idiosyncracies. A system that will end as closed often looks
just like an open system that might never be closed. If you aren't
aware of what caused the system to be closed, you would expect trends
to continue indefinitely.



Most systems can be viewed as open or closed. If you try to view the
selection of public stocks as open, then you start with a good index
and familiarize its stocks one by one, gradually learning to trade. If
you instead choose to view the selection of stocks as closed, then,
like Warren Buffet, you might grab a copy of Moody's and memorize the
avaiable stocks, one by one. When you model available the wider
financial markets as a closed system, then every trade effectively
results in an equal and opposite shift in value from one asset to
another. This is several conditions hold: that no money enters or
leaves the system, amoung others. Closed systems allow you to make
reasonable inferences about (preservation aggregate quantity.)

### (Why does it matter?)

The noosphere, our shared information ecosystem, combines the traits
of open in closed along various measures. It's both open and closed in
a very complicated way. The transition from open to closed leads to
divergent phenomenological implications. When we notice that
sociophysical mechanics (appear to change dramatically), it is often
because our shared system of social interaction is more or less
constrained by some factors, which are functionally coupled to various
measures of "system boundedness".

While communication networks are converging, (...) people send and
receive radically more information. In this respect, system is bounded
not by how fast data can be transmitted, but by how much data people
have to transmit. In this oversimplication, the system fluctuates:
telecom expands, people buy new phones with new apps, they send gifs,
telecom removes bandwidth limits, then people figure out they can send
videos.

###

When your system is an infinitely dimensional, convoluted non-linear
sociophysical system, it reacts with an incomprehensible set of
dynamics that are impossible to differentiate and dilineate. There are
critical categories of metrics that can help simplify the system.
Around clusters of values for these groups of metrics, there are
boundaries. Stay in the boundary, the system is more stable. Move
outside of a cluster's boundary region, the system will begin to
transition chaotically. If you're lucky, it will do so with some
degree of predictability. (Transitioning) into and out of these
boundaries can describe a phase change, though these are phases
composed of phase metatypes.

If you imagine a group of metrics including information velocity and
social graph connectedness as (forming a category), then as long as
the velocity nor the connectedness skyrockets, the system prefers not
to undergo transformations that it has never exhibited. We all know
these two metrics are evolving exponentially, but this (is just one of
the few examples that can be easily put into words). Obviously,
technology and convergent communication networks also present us with
beneficial (transformation).

# (Superconduction and Phase Change)

Superconduction is another physical phenomenon for which we can
imagine significant sociophysical metaphors. Superconduction describes
systems of descreasing thermal energy whose electrical resistance
suddenly becomes zero. It is a type of phase change which is not
linearly bound to the temperature; it is the sudden shift to zero
electrical resistence. Phases are not a primarily physical
phenonenon. They are an idea in math, where systems operate in a
functionally distinct way when their constituents individually satisfy
some properties over increasingly large spatial regions. This
generalized idea of phase changes in sociophysical systems will be
discussed in detail later.

Just like particle systems, sociophysical systems also experience
phase changes. Reduce the physical space's limits on velocity and
distance, then increase the quantity of information flux and suddenly
a vastly different set of principles applies. Models for sociophysical
systems with physical information transfer still apply and the same
set of mechanics apply, but are permuted in the way these mechanics
present themselves. This includes mechanics we may have never observed
before. Systems where the majority of interactions take place on
virtual channels utilize mechanics that cause the nature of
information itself to dominate the interactions. This leads to what
can be described as the geometric mechanics of information systems.

As our world becomes more closed (in various ways) and as our
communication infrastructure encourages sociophyscial phase changes,
different sets of principles can be considered to be fundamental in
modeling the system. When population growth and virtual channels cause
the world to create vastly more information than could ever be
consumed by humans, this also presents a series of phase changes
because the sheer volume of information in itself changes how people
behave. When we reach a knowledge plateau, which some describe as The
Singularity, the simple presence of a boundary on new knowledge means
that people operate differently based on the assumption that no
quantity of information produces significant knowledge. In
high-volume, high-flux sociophysical systems, information economics
becomes demand-side, where the abundance in supply reduces the
significance of qualitative differences in information. When people
generally decide this, in itself, changes their decision-making and
information-filtering processes, it results a kind of phase change.

# Spectral Decoherence in the Noosphere

Information converges in different ways at various scales along
various dimensions, which include spatial, aggregate and
graph-oriented dimensions. In other ways, info becomes
non-convergent.

### The Structure of the Noosphere

Analogous to the biosphere, the
[noosphere](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Noosphere) represents the
sum of all information. It includes everything that anyone might think
someone could think, as well as the metaontological expansion of
everything contained within itself. Here, metaontology refers to a
categorical deconstruction of ontologies. The noosphere is distinct
from, but similar in nature to [Abraxas]() because that entity
includes everything that was, is or could be, whether it has existed,
could exist or could be comprehended by man. The noosphere is
unimaginably infinite, but can be approximated via data science,
knowledge representation and ontological engineering. For the purposes
of understanding social physics, the noosphere can be considered to be
something between what can be modeled by data science and the more
philosophical definition above.

### (Ontologies in Data Science)

(As an example of how ontologies are used by data science), this paper
geographically dilineates search recommendations with an ontological
model of location types as they are functionally coupled to weather
status. For example, the algorithm will not prioritize a local
drive-in theater on a rainy day because its ontological model of
location types enables it make more contextually relevant
inferences. Similarly, algorithms used by Facebook and Google might
compare a user's recent and total activity against ontological models
to recommend results relevant to that user's interests. Below is a
subset of the
[Gene Ontology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gene_ontology), used in
bioinformatics to help identify networks of functionally related
genes.

#### [Implementation of a Geo-Semantic App by Combining Mobile User Contexts with Geographic Ontologies](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/263992616_Implementation_of_a_Geo-Semantic_App_by_Combining_Mobile_User_Contexts_with_Geographic_Ontologies)

![Gene Ontology](/img/posts/.../gene-ontology.png)

### (Graph Neighborhoods)

Neighborhoods of the social graph can be generated via various
mathematic metrics. The term degrees of separation is one such
metric. At a distance of six edges, the neighborhood should encompass
all nodes in the social graph. Physical distance is another metric
that can filter the social graph into a neighborhood. Given any
neighborhood, you can generate a subgraph of the noosphere
representing the totality of information for that set of people. As
you zoom out to wider neighborhoods, each noosphere generated for the
neighborhood varies less as the chosen metric expands. This phenomenon
is generally more apparent for knowledge than for information, where
knowledge is defined as information above some threshold of universal
significance.

### (Anscombe's Paradox)

As the total noosphere expands over time, it masks rapidly increasing
variance between noospheres generated by social subgraphs. Generally,
comparing smaller neighborhoods yields increasing variance in their
noospheres, the generated information graphs. Modernism and convergent
communication infrastructure causes this variance (to become more
pronounced) over time. This phenomenon of increasing variance at
smaller scales is like a variant of Anscombe's Paradox applied to
graphs. This dissonance in local information is essentially
[spectral decoherence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coherence_(signal_processing)).

#### [Anscombe's Quartet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anscombe%27s_quartet), Four Sets With Identical Aggregates

![Picture of anscombe's quartet](/img/posts/.../anscombes-quartet.jpg)

Imagine the noosphere for 15th century European society, where almost
every literate person has only read from a single book: the Bible. As
you zoom out, the effects of that literary work on the information
graph become (pronounced). At that time, the knowledge graph is sadly
empty and the scope of shared knowledge is minimal, compared to what
is instilled by today's public education system. Before the modern
era, adjacent neighborhoods would correlate with highly similar
generated noospheres. They would have very high spectral coherence.
Prior to internet, subcultures were contained to geographic areas or
displayed heightened evolution in urban areas.

Where before, evolution in culture required more time to proliferate,
we have obliterated the physical constraints on information
transmission. The speed of a thought as it traverses social networks
is almost meaningless because of the predominantly aphysical nature of
communication. Awareness of this phenomenon itself causes a phase
change, which alters the design of mass communication.

### Which one of these is *the* fake news article?

This has massive ramifications for the design of communication,
particularly in how one can use a language of imagery and be confident
in the emotional interpretations.  In the 20th century America, mass
communication was at its height of power, parity and
confidence. However, in the world of social media, the rampant
speciation of information is exponential. We are less capable of
responding to an event, article or piece of information because of the
vast disparity in information between two or more individuals.
Further, the qualitative significance of each piece of information
depends on what presentations of that information an individual has
seen. So, when mainstream media tries to handle an event, it can't
identify a language of symbols to leverage that will evoke predictable
interpretations.

- jesus, a handful of hippies with a mic and a soundstage at Woodstock
  were able to get the word out about the "brown acid".

# A Tall Glass of Nihilism to Toast Your Post-Modernist Wasteland

This phenomenon of spectral decoherence is informational and implies
that we should amplify what unifies us.
[Diversity in body, mind and culture](/posts/2016-05-14-facets-of-greatness-the-unknown-monumental-accidents.html#embracing-diversity)
is an American strength, as is our social connectedness to the rest of
the world.

### Spectral Decoherence and the Economics of Content Creation

Spectral decoherence is already pronounced, but it effects will
feedback into its interactions with the economics of content creation
and distribution. As automation funnels human economic potential into
creative endeavors, this drives an abundance of content. However, the
sheer quantity implies it can *neither* be marketed affordably *nor*
effectively. Regardless of the marketing budget, there are no IP's or
new content that can cultivate a strong following.

Left unchecked, this phenomenon implies all cultural artifacts will be
essentially noise, where no artifacts develop a significant or
marketable following among content producers or consumers. The future
is a desolate (wasteland) of cultural noise, full of cheap
recombinations of the (same shit) that nobody recognizes ... except
Star Wars because Star Wars can afford a billion dollar marketing
budget.

### (semiotics and social engineering)

Because our culture, language and society depends so heavily on
patterns of recognizable symbols for social engineering, pattern
languages and cultural programming, this ends in disaster because each
of these three things become much less capable of functioning without
spectral coherence of semiotic distribution. Without anticipation of
this and without proactively amplifying semiotic mappings as
harmonics, we will find ourselves less capable of adapting to what we
know will be a turbulent of cultural evolution.

These essays, the
[Paradox of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-16-the-paradox-of-creativity.html)
and the
[Death of Creativity](/posts/2016-05-17-the-death-of-creativity.html),
began to describe this converged society full of creative people
empowered to the max, who can't produce anything distinguishable.

# (Information Warfare)

What does all of this mean for information warfare? We are not
ready for it at all. This creates a situation where a strong, powerful
adversary or even a weak one can exert influence over networking,
telecom, and media to close it down. Our information borders are wide
open, but this is as much a strength for America as it can be a
vulnerability. The dynamics, tactics and strategies of information
warfare shift beneath our feet when people are so distracted by the
social media circus they don't see it coming.

And most Westerners don't see it coming because the liberal mindset
chastises you whenever you place precedence on some cultural artifacts
over others. However, this isn't about liberalism vs conservatism.
It's just inevitable. We all have to face it. We have to artifically
prioritize some elements of our culture to create cultural
coherence. Otherwise, we will succumb to nihilism more quickly.

Further, we have to accept that we are inherently more vulnerable to
information itself. Influence, foreign or domestic, can undermine our
decisions and policy, leveraging our own communication infrastructure
to set Americans against one another. This prevents us from acting in
unison and building on each other's energy. Potential election
interference, regardless of the specifics, demonstrates this potential
for destabalization.

### Conclusions

Paradoxically, the technology that (leads to) humanity's Shangri-La of
total self-awareness also leads to paradigm shifts in the mechanics
and dynamics of information that promote instability. The beauty that
we will see is what we should have been able to see all along. We must
appreciate it, but lurking beneath every paradise is (a hidden
danger). If we become distracted, disoriented or disillusioned, we
will be blindsided.

During this (transitionary period), we will each have our own
understanding of how the world has changed and how it has changed
us. We must hedge against potential sources of turbulence, magnified
by the principles of game theory. Technology will empower all players
for better or worse. Rogue self-interests will exploit novel paradigms
of sociophysical mechanics, (unrecognizable) to most. Information
warfare is all about using the energy of others for your own gain. The
phenomena of spectral decoherence expands and confounds (believable)
narratives, which lends itself to deception and opportunistic tactics.

- Social physics itself is ancient, but virtualized channels dominate
  communication, rendering any of its former incarnations obsolete.

- Still, as social physics evolves, it can be modeled by restructuring
  the same primitive mechanics.
  - Still, convergence only repackages the same mechanics in new ways,

- we need to focus on how those fundamentals of
  communication/information, in the context of convergence/etc

- (this leads to drastically different conclusions on what humanities
  purpose is and what our challenges are)

Humanity needs to identify and magnify its common ground. Law and
action should... promote incentivization.

We all have to own this, wherever it leads. Pain from past and present
conflict threatens to motivate future tension.

Systems with properly structured incentivization models always
reinforce


  - blinded by our ego
  - information saturation & overstimulation
  - individuality/privacy is diminished
  - causality becomes incredibly difficult to understand

  - ironically, even though we are able to observe ourselves in near
    totality, connect to almost anyone globally, and solve all our
    problems, our greatest threat is nihilism and our greatest fear
    will be ourselves.

The next section presents an overview of social physics.

