---
title: "The Speed of Thought: Social Physics"
categories: "blog"
tags: ""
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

- [the encyclopedia of human thermodynamics - HMOL](http://www.eoht.info/)
  - pretty much the most comprehensive source on social physics and
    everything related it it. it's really comprehensive. it's also one
    of the only sites that covers social physics
  - cite the social physics paper on studying differences in
    physically/virtually connected social networks
    - site other papers?



### [Marathon and Thermopylae](#marathon-and-thermopylae)

At the battle of Marathon, the Greeks defeated the Persians. News of
this victory was so critical that Pheidippides ran over twenty miles
to bear news of it's victory. Every marathon you run is part of a
millenia-old celebration of being the first to deliver a message.

What's the value of a message? How does cheap and free transmission
affect us? How does it lead to progress? The power of a simple message
unimpeded can change the course of civilizations. At Thermopylae, the
brave acts of hundreds of Spartans struck fear into the heart of
Persians and funneled vigor into the hearts of Greeks to rise up and
resist the oncoming hordes. Would this envigorating effect have been
possible if not for the story? What if it couldn't be told?

###

During the first millinea B.C., a confluence of Greek
technology, culture and geography, encouraged a philosophic
exploration of human life. In particular, the Greek city-states
flourished at a time where reflection on the structure of society
itself was encouraged, where its evolution occured at a rapid pace and
operated long enough without being domineered by an external
force. This itself wasn't unique, but we managed to maintain their
literary tradition. In doing so, we preserved the best record this
phenomenon in Western history.

In the ancient world, population growth and movement was tightly
coupled to economic opportunity, constrained by resources, and bounded
by geography. Population quantity drives the total quantity of
information and increases rate at which innovations via the network
effect. Population density increases the rate at which information
moves in those sociophysical networks.

Imagine humans as particles with random motion whose individual speed
of vibration depends on the vehicles available. For the most part, the
particles vibrate in patterns originating from some home point and
returning to it every day. When these particles hit the ocean, they
accelerate like sound hitting a solid barrier, assuming these people
have ships and sails.

Imagine the sun rising in the Far East. It heats up the air and water,
giving us wind and ocean currents, but doesn't it's sociophysical
energy also reverberate through humanity?  As the world turns each
day, there is random motion moving from the east to the west, driving
social interactions. Pushing through the noise are faint, low
frequency waves of cultural information rippling over and reflecting
between geographic features. Vacuums of low population density tapers
this resonance. Between the centers of civilization, the dispersion of
information is strained through translingual membrane, limiting the
number of social connections over which information can cross. These
metaphors are not perfect, as behavior was not coordinated and our
modes of transportation were limited throughout history.

Consider the human population distribution of 5,000 BC. At this time,
we had dispersed from Africa through the Middle East and around the
Black Sea to India, Europe, China, Indonesia and the Americas. At that
time, was there a region more connected than others? The most
connected region was the Middle East. And people less connected?
Those in island nations or beyond the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn,
both of which would incidentally be more likely to understand the
spherical shape of the earth.

As for the Middle East, its high degree of connection, its proximity
to geographic chokepoints and its access to large swaths of ocean
surface area gave it an almost unparalleled economic advantage, which
only grew as time marched on. This region had the shortest actual
distance to the most number of people, and access to the largest
social graph neighborhoods, depending on how you measured it. When
people are more widely spread out, it is more rare to have large 2nd
and 3rd degree networks, which conferred major advantages. Those with
wealth could finance transport and delegate action, which further
helped expand those networks.

# (Social Physics Overview

Sociophysical systems are usually too complex to yield truly
scientific evidence, these metaphors and metrics are invaluable tools
yielding philosophic insights. They sharpen our inductive reasoning
for social behavior and history, giving us options that will yield
concrete scientific evidence. Most social systems modeled with
physical components are incomputable, but computational social science
is harnessing these ideas today. (cite study)

- The speed of information is just one quantifiable social metric
  whose (momentary scale) led to a profound effect on human history.
  - (succinctly describe other metrics at a high level, that were
    easily observable by people throughout history, whose trends could
    be anticipated)
  - distribution of information
  - spectrum of available information
  - spectrum of modes of communication
  - value of information

### (Overview)

Information has a life of its own and nowhere does this become more
clear than in social physics, which is a mathematical framework for
modeling idealized social behavior with physical constraints. (It's
mind blowing, but the bad news is) that almost every problem is
incomputable. Incredibly useful insights can be extrapolated from a
philosophic exploration of social physics.

Social physics was originally developed in the 19th century (links) to
explain how the behavior of players in simplified games were affected
by the imposition of physical (rules/constraints). It originally
borrowed heavily from classical mechanics and now overlaps with
quantum mechanics, since non-deterministic games are loaded with
probabilistic mechanics. Social physics can help us understand team
sports, advanced
[swarm behavior](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swarm_behaviour), the
geometric mechanics of battle tactics, cocktail parties and the finer
mysteries of feng shui. Each of those activities (determined by the
physics of the space) space and players in a social game with rules,
though with feng shui, the game and players may be less clearly
defined.

If you begin modeling games where players have their own sets of
information, social physics becomes irrevocably and hopelessly
incomputable, almost immediately. There are several layers to this,
where each adds complexity that extends the hardness of the problems.

#### &#x2605; Do the players contain their own copies of information or is it shared?

#### &#x2605; Do instances of information adhere to a defined schema shared among all players?

#### &#x2605; Can the information schema be modified?

#### &#x2605; Can the information be known in totality for the game?

#### &#x2605; Can a player access their own information in totality or reflect on its schematic structure?

#### &#x2605; Do players need to make inferences based on the information schemas of other players?

It isn't clear (which of the above) will add the most complexity, but
in social situations players almost always operate with incomplete
understanding. They can do so effectively because they've been
conditioned with proactive and reactive behaviors that (...).
Information overload can negatively affect players. The (questions)
pertaining to information schema and information reflection add an
incomprehensibly infinite degree of complexity. For the
mathemtaticians, yes, modifiable schemas with or without reflection
are definitely uncountable.

All of this means that players have to be good at handling
information, but better at balancing uncertainy and risk with
goal-seeking behavior. If the game being modeled is soccer or some
other team sport, there are subtle sociophysical aspects that can
vastly improve team performance, such as ensuring visibility and other
mechanics of communication. If the team works together and can share
its understanding of the state of the field, this can help immensely
with coordinating tactics.

There are other physical aspects of soccer which are also modeled by
social physics, such as the typical FIFA 2017 stats: speed, energy,
skill, etc. The best players in the world can play together, but
unless they can read each other and anticipate the coordination of
tactics with limited signaling, the games will be reduced to the more
physical stats and positioning.

Social physics is distinguished by providing a framework for systems
where players react to informational components as well as their
dynamics.

  - these mathematical frameworks/solutions almost always incomputable
    - and knowing this, how do you identify what can be modeled or
      known? and how do you structure your processes and behaviors to
      collect data to efficiently model information dynamics and
      social phenomena


# Most Important Conclusions from Social Physics

#### (1) decoherence of information/knowledge reduces... (ability to model the system)

- the single most important conclusion I can draw from a mathematical
  assessment of social physics is that the ability to make valid
  assumptions on information/beliefs and the behaviors of nodes is
  unparalleled
  - if you cannot do these things, you cannot expect to predict
    specific or general behavior and you cannot expect to extrapolate

- religion

- the inability to scalably model or to even ascertain pieces of
  information, which are sometimes unindexable if no rigid schema can
  be devised, means that the way in which information is handled in
  these models becomes infinitely more important
  - i.e. convergence and homogeneity of belief systems is required to
    make *any* useful inferences and those aspects of the systems
    which cause schematic divergence become problematic

- this leads into a discussion of schematic complexity (no it doesn't
  not yet)

#### (2) Attention/Focus (does not permit Concurrency of action)

- a second critical factor is the lack of multitasking:
  - particles (at least people) can only really do one thing & can
    only think one thing at a time, which bounds how quickly state
    changes can occur
    - this doesn't apply to automonous agents operating on virtual
      channels, which are so far almost completely bound to aphysical
      manisfestations
  - similarly, people are bound to one place at a time

#### (3) Social Isolation can be Measured

- third: social isolation is quantifiable and almost always correlates
  with power. more isolated, less empowered.
  - isolated individuals are more susceptable to manipulation


- social isolation can be measured, given some "normal" facebook
  user's 2-degree graph of friends for some definition of normal
  (casual but regular) social media usage
  - filter the friends by strength of connection to indentify edges
    sending and receiving inbound and outbound messages/interactions
    - measure the degree of reciprication and the variety of people
      forming the strongest recent connections
    - filter out all connections which do not fit some minimum of
      interaction threshold
    - this sparsifies the graph, filtering a dense graph and leaving
      only the most relevant connections
  - from here, the person's isolation can be measured using spectral
    graph theory
    - this independence can be measured in graph theory with
      kelman's transformation
    - see spectral graph theory
      [here](http://www.cs.elte.hu/~csiki/application_Kelmans.pdf),
      [here](http://www.math.ucsd.edu/~mtait/k-independent.pdf)
      - and [here](https://www.cs.elte.hu/math/phd_th/csiki.v2.pdf)
      - the details of this math is over my head btw

- this, of course, assumes the person is a "normal" facebook user,
  where the relevant 1-degree and 2-degree connections in the friend
  graph are all also "normal" users
  - this high-level algorithm could also work with clustered types of
    facebook users
    - yet, the degree in variation in how people use applications to
      communicate and their distribution of time/usage across multiple
      applications makes clustering extremely difficult.
    - at least, if a clustering algorithm is to enable the selection
      of users which fit some basis with quantifyable variation and
      some metric of confidence


- over time, social isolation created some of the largest setbacks for
  the african american community. this strongly limited social
  mobility because african americans forged a disproportionate amount
  of strong connections with influential people with social/financial
  capital.

- in a purely digital world, manipulation of social media algorithms
  to exclude "undesirable" individuals to create disconnection among
  groups of people, defined logically instead of by ethnicity.
  - i don't mean this to be compared to segregation
  - in a convergent social network that is increasingly less engaged
    in "real" interactions and more engaged in "virtual" interactions,
    where some interactions can be voluntarily or involuntarily
    censored via SEO/Social Media manipulation, this means that entire
    groups of people can become silenced or disenfranchised without
    even knowing it.


# The Definition of Power

### Power Can Be Defined as the Potential to Trigger Flux through the Social Network

- this flux comes in many forms, including the induction of:
  - physical change
  - informational change
  - schematic change
  - behavioral change

- the forms above are higher-order. that is, what we see IRL are
  really combinations of the above:
  - informational change that results in physical change
  - informational change that results in eventual schematic change on
    a social scale
  - behavior change that results in long-term physical changes
  - physical changes that result in informational changes
  - schematic change that results in self-perpetuating changes over
    the course of years, decades or centuries (i.e. religion)

- this potential for flux/action is very much dependent on the beliefs
  of nodes in the system and a differential of information available
  to the nodes.
  - that is, if there is already complete disemination of some pieces
    of information to a set of nodes, you have reduced or lost the
    capacity to influence those nodes through the disemination of that
    information
    - this is overly simplified because, again, everything is a
      lower-order conjugation of the above higher-order forms
    - differential equations
  - but the social graph that emerges on top of physically interacting
    particles (idealized people) in a social system functions very
    much like an electrical network
    - in this way, power and information function similarly to
      voltage, amperage, gates, etc, albeit in an extremely-high
      dimensional way
    - math problems that are extremely high in dimension or infinitely
      dimensional function in radically different ways
      - this often studied as the curse of dimensionality and it's
        implications in various areas of math diverge widely


# (Physics Analogies for Social Systems)

- people as particles: temperature, density, state, etc.
- speed of sound
- phase changes
- configurational entropy & conformational entropy

### Tempurature

- should this be moved to an article on social physics?
- the ideas of "temperature" and "energy" for the high-dimensional
  systems of social physics
  - spatial or physical temperature/energy/motion
  - the more metaphysical, high-dimensional temperature/energy of
    information

- social physics temperature, induced by sunrise
  - informational movement from east to west
    - increasing "temperature"


### Speed of Information Transfer



### Particles and Molecules

- (note up front that everything in this paragraph is overly
  simplified. rename people as particles and describe it as a
  simulation)
- IRL social interactions are constrained by the spaces they occur in.
  - if viewed top-down in 2D, geometric patterns emerge.
  - this is where the physics interactions get interesting because, if
    you idealize them to a sociophysical model, people interact with
    shared fields, just like particles do.
    - there are fields that attract and repel. there are fields that
      are far more complicated than any in physics, like the shared
      field of attention.
    - when interacting, people try to harmonize the space between each
      other. they like to be close when they are interested in the
      interaction, but not too close.
      - so in an overly simplistic model, they influence a shared
        field that causes them to repel and attract each other.
    - but, people are constantly reading each other and there is this
      shared field of attention that emerges.
      - people have a natural urge to know what other people are
        interested in. so, they subconsciously read signals that
        indicate attention
        - imagine a 2D space with a heat map that shows everyone's
          average object of attention
        - they are naturally pulled towards the areas of the heatmap
          that are strongest.
        - they are pulled towards the gradient of the laplacian of the
          group's influence on the shared field of attention... (reword
          this)
        - IRL, it's not so simple.

- then you can define rules that determine which particles can
  transmit information
  - they have to be within some minimum distince to "connect"
  - once they are connected to a group, the simulation's interactions
    have a set rules
  - but particles should form groups that resemble molecules, but
    because of how the particles simultaneously repel and attract each
    other, they form a fairly limited set of molecule shapes.
    - the shapes are primarily circular (2-6 people can easily circle
      together and talk in a fairly noisy space)
    - but then, depending on how each particle's attention affects
      their behavior and physical orientation, these primary shapes
      can merge to form more complex shapes.
  - these group connections have a logical graph structure that is
    imposed ontop of the physical structure (the shape of the
    "molecule")
    - IRL, people are moreso thinking about the logical structure when
      they interact, but the physical structure also matters.

- the geometry that emerges in IRL social interactions also adheres to the
  spatial constraints.
  - the physical arrangement of objects in the space contributes
    heavily to range of possibilities for interactions that emerge,
    but also strongly shapes the physical and logical geometry of
    group interactions.
    - feng shui helps us think about this aspect of social
      interactions
  - this sounds complicated, but isn't. if there's a restaurant with
    ten tables in one of its rooms, the people who sit down can only
    arrange themselves in specific ways.
    - this is similar to "holes" in N-doped and P-doped silicon
      transisters, if we're overly eager for physics analogies.
  - so, the physical arrangement of the space and functional specifics
    of its objects tends to constrain the configurational and
    conformational entropy of interactions in the space.

### Configurational Entropy in Sociophysical Systems

- need to review the concepts here:
  - conformation space are the probabilities of seeing particular
    conformations of molecules, which AFAIK is not concerned with the
    orientation of molecules (at least not the probability
    distribution of conformations)
  - configuration space has more to do with valid and realistic
    arrangements of molecule types throughout a system.
    -

prevalence of...?

- as a sociophysical system progresses, you can keep track of the
  amount of time specific "molecular" configurations of participants
  spent connected.
  - this forms a kind of combinatorially-derived entropy, but it's not
    thermodynamic entropy. it's closer to Shannon's informational
    entropy.
  - you can also keep track of the *types* of configurations that
    emerge. this is probably more important, considering there are
    factorially more combinations with more particles.
    - if there are multiple particle types, then each counts as a
      symbol for combination. (i.e. AA/AB/BA/BB for types A & B)
  - this is useful because you get feedback on understanding how the
    rules of your simulation affect the kinds of interactions that
    emerge amoung particles.
    - and it can help you identify when the rules of the system are
      weighted improperly, leading to lower configuration entropy and
      a skewed distribution

- this concept carries over to organic chemistry, where it's called
  configuration entropy. there is also conformational entropy, but
  this is a weaker analogy b/w organic chemistry reactions and social
  physics simulations.
  - you could say that a social physics simulation with arbitrary
    rules yields conformations of nodes, some more or less stable
  - but, the types of conformations for a group of molecules are less
    defined. it's probably not as useful without some means of
    restricting the types of conformations that emerge by placing
    constraints on particle interactions

#### "A Phase Change in the Functional Fabric of Reality"

- nature of duality vs agency, along geographic/philosophic dimensions
- an agent's degree of influence and perceived influence over
  environment, especially as it relates to some permanent state
  changes.
  - in particle systems which are high-dimensional and where the
    particles have agency and intentionality, phase changes among
    particles have a far greater capacity for effecting other
    particles in the system.

- for the common person to understand, they need to understand what a
  phase change in physics actually is and, most importantly, what a
  phase change is defined as outside of physical systems.
  - if you think of solid, liquid, gas, plasma, BEC ... what makes
    each one what it is?
    - they are composed of the same particles, mostly.
    - why is it that they "seem" so different, qualitatively?
    - how do you define what conditions lead some substance to begin
      to transform itself into a different phase?

- how do you model the interactions between a mixture of a single
  substance where different parts of the space you're observing are in
  different phases?
  - this is the most important part of understanding what a phase
    change is and carrying it over to non-physical systems: how does a
    physicist mathematically model different phases of a
    single-substance system and *why*?
  - this is what distinguishes systems with math that can model phases
    and those that can't.
    - phase changes introduce and enable dramatically different modes
      of interaction between the substance and both it's consitutuent
      parts and it's environment.
    - for example, solids propagate energy as more clearly defined
      waves moving across a more limited set of crystal configurations
      - liquids and gases also propagate waves of energy across the
        system, but there are more physical degrees of freedom for how
        a particle can kinetically react.
      - but, this qualitative change in how a particle reacts to its
        envrionment emerges not from signal particle or the state of
        its local environment, but from more macroscopic relationships
        that emerge from a *group* of particles.
        - that is, it's *difficult* to say whether a single atom of
          carbon is a particular phase at any temperature.
          - the carbon atom just acts like a carbon atom and nothing
            else.
        - as a aside: this is also why various configurations of
          matter at the nano scale can have such dramatically varied
          behaviors that do not appear on more macro scales and do not
          appear for singular atoms and molecules
        - some of these properties are chemical and electrical and,
          thus, are not traditionally considered "phases" by chemists
          or physicists.
          - physical phases are defined as being completely separate
            from the chemical properties of the atom or substance.
        - but the "phase" of a region of a substance determines how
          that section of matter interacts with matter of the same
          substance in other adjacent slices of space.
          - that is, even though it's very literally the same
            substance, the "rules" for how it physically interacts
            change.

- and so, there are phase changes in many kinds of systems. they are
  not just confined to physical systems. some chemical properties of
  matter can be dependent on the substance's phase.
  - some chemical properties that only emerge on the nanoscale could
    be modeled as "phases" although they are not related to the
    physical phases of solid, liquid or gas.
    - and so, as you zoom out to larger collections of the same
      substance, it loses those properties from the nanoscale
      configuration of matter, unless that fragile nanostructure is
      held consistent across the entire material.

- soooo ... what are phase changes in sociophysical systems?


### Reynold's Number

- (reynold's number)
        - describes the parameters at which turbulent fluid flow
          emerges. (but what is turbulence for high-dimensional
          sociophysical particle systems)

### everything is a wave

  - information in social physics should be modelable as waves,
    communicated among players in social games, idealized as
    particles)
  - social phenomena can be modeled with social physics, but almost
    everything is incomputable.
  - however, similar to how there are many kinds of interactions
    between particles and waves, interactions in social physics can be
    understood with infinite dimensional waves
    - however, the structure of information infinite and unknowable

# Critical Metrics for Sociophysical Systems

- the speed at which any piece of information could travel

- the definition of information convergence across a network
  - that is, at what percentage of people in a network would you
    consider the piece of information common knowledge?
  - this is an important metric because its definition affects
    "velocity" of convergence or "distance remaining" to convergence
  - what are the specific ideas from math that define this in abstract
    terms?
    - this would concern metrics of convergence for graphs and is
      probably related to entropy

- the length of time it takes for an urgent piece of information to
  converge across a network.

- (better word than convergence?)

- the degree of repition or replication that's required for
  information to achieve permanence, with various levels of technology.
  - before writing, only highly-prioritized information would be
    achieve convergence through replication.
  - after the printing press, ...

- the quantity, qualities and dynamics of information flux networks.
  - do nodes exchange information at regular times? with what degree
    of certainty?
  - which nodes exchange information? how often? how much?
    - are any of these things predictable?
      - you'll find that, the more physically bound a social system
        is, the more confidant you can be in predicting/anticipating
        these things.

- shannon entropy (i.e. informational entropy) related to the
  more abstract structure of information
  - in other words, what kinds of information, messages and ideas are
    most people going to talk about
  - in a language or character set, this is easier to define.
  - in this context, the structures and variations you are measuring
    are infinite
  - this measure of entropy is important for understanding how to
    distract and disguise.

- measures of energy for information transfer/convergence
  - literal physical energy required to transfer information
  - dirichlet energy (?)
    - this is a generic measure of energy. what are some specific
      examples of applying this idea to sociophysical systems?

- measuring/analyzing the graphs/networks in sociophysical systems
  - (are there better terms for these ideas? it'd be better to find
    the right terms from math/physics)
  - interpersonal networks viewed as graphs
    - hierarchical structures: identifying subgraphs ... which are
      self-similar
    - identifying boundaries in the graphs
    - identifying geographic boundaries with a higher capacity to be
      "expander graphs" for the global system (reword this?)
      - this describes america/europe and other areas with diverse
        populations. these areas are more tightly connected with the
        rest of the world.
      - this well-connected aspect of america's social network can be
        leveraged as an asset. (soft power, economic development,
        etc.)
        - expander graph may not be the appropriate term, but
          describes a graph that is maximally connected from any node,
          while having a relatively minimal number of connections.
        - so, from any arbitrary node, you can find a minimal path to
          any other node in the graph. (viz. it's an efficiently
          structured graph. the complete graph is not a good expander
          graph because it's not efficiently connected)
        - AFAIK, the human brain functions as an expander graph with
          some other regular structure
  - analyzing the sociophysical dynamics of information diffusion
    - are some areas more porous?
      - more likely to retransmit information?
      - more likely to absorb new information?
    - how do differences in language affect the transmission of
      information?

- measuring the regularity of phenomena in the system

- measuring the different kinds of flux in a system

- vessels for containing information
  - (these aren't metrics, but there are important metrics related to
    them)
  - vehicles for moving information
    - foot, horse, car, signal fire
    - imagine your a shady villan from a disney movie and you need to
      stop a message from getting to your king.
      - you know it's a letter; you know the messenger left 5 minutes
        ago; there are X roads leading to X towns
      - you can order people to move as fast as they can to stop the
        messenger, but you need to know whether you can stop the
        message, otherwise you have to change your plans.
      - can you be sure the people you order can outrun a messenger,
        if you don't know who they are?
      - (change the specifics in this scenario?)
      - people have a set of options available to them to transfer
        information. the mechanics of each option is crucially
        important when trying to decide if the information can
        physically escape.

