### Consiousness as a Continuum

I was particularly proud of this article, as it’s one of the few where
I didn’t have an outline. Usually, I write an outline and it sits in
my drafts branch for months or years. I have hundreds of these
things. I could write for 10 hours a day for 6 - 12 months and not run
out of unique content. But when I published this article, it was
immediately deleted from r/philosophy and I was threatened by other
users. For philosophy? Really? … Really?!!

Why respond so strongly? And why respond by appealing to subreddits
that are politically oriented?! That’s crazy.

### The Nature of Space, Time and Information Implies Universal Language

Here, I pitch the possibility of some language which is like the
kernel or apex of the structure of knowledge. It is built from the
most basic structures of information. The thesis for this one is: the
need to communicate & establish protocols without having to cross vast
distances implies that every sufficiently advanced civilization would
eventually uncover an identical language to communicate ideas, given
enough time and development.

This is one of the articles for which I received significant backlash…
from my family, who knows nothing about philosophy. I sat on the
outline for months. The morning I was going to publish it (a few hours
before) they sat me down and threatened to send me to the looney
bin. And that’s basically my life. I’m lucky if I don’t get sent off
for “treatment.” The way they approached handling me that day was
reactive to my writing. Weird, right? My mom, brother and sister each
refuse to read anything that I write. That’s so weird. They claim that
it sounds crazy, I’m crazy and that I should just get a job.

This article establishes the basis for a universal language.
“Consciousness as a Continuum” establishes the possibility of a
pre-existing medium through which we can all communicate
instantly. Through the entire universe! Or at least, I entertain this
idea. This has VAST implications for EPISTEMOLOGY and TECHNOLOGY!! I
haven’t really heard anyone discuss this! So, how can someone say this
isn’t philosophy and that it belongs on a futurism subreddit?! That’s
fucking crazy!

“Consciousness as a Continuum” undermines the Singularity by posing
the possibility of threshold at which all civilizations in the
universe will become capable of instant communication with all
others. Thus, instant transmission of data & experience & knowledge to
other civilizations. A galactic economy, where your value is
established by the supply of computational power you can contributed
to this cosmic quantum supercomputer to the sky!

OMFG how the fuck could a moderator remove this article?! Like I know
it rambles a bit. But that is proof of genius: I didn’t have an
outline; no one told me about this idea; I sat down one afternoon and
rambled on until I reached this idea. WHAT THE FUCK?! But I’m useless
and I have sixty cents to my name. LMAO, it’s all the better because I
get to laugh about it. I get to laugh about the way the world derided
me and isolated me and how I overcame it all.

### Neural Networks and Spider Brains

This is an article about consciousness that ties in nicely with
“Consciousness as a Continuum” and “The Nature of Space, Time and
Information Implies Universal Language.” It covers how a spider
processes sensory information via insights its neural networks must
make. These insights are provided to some window of consciousness that
the spider uses to drive its actions and behaviors. Want to know why I
wrote this article? I was procrastinating and I saw a spider on the
wall. I realized that, at some level. it must somehow be capable of
recognizing objects, types of objects, actions and types of actions in
order to “inform” it’s actions. This post requires understanding of
consciousness, neurology, machine learning and other somewhat esoteric
fields.

But … it could also lead to important insights for Artificial
Intelligence? I guess? I don’t know. But that right there is my
genius: I don’t fucking know! I also don’t know why I have sixty cents
to my name. Philosophy is spooky and dangerous!! Don’t think too hard
about how you think!

### Epistemology, Cognition and Category Theory

This is an unfinished series on the mind and its connections to the
nature of knowledge and cognition. Readers need an understanding of
neurology, psychology, cognition, metacognition, philosophy, category
theory (math) and epistemology. By combining knowledge from
developmental, behavioral and cognitive psychology, we should be able
to learn how we learn. As we become familiar with this, we should be
able to accelerate our development to learn better, faster, harder …

This post uses an incorrect set of terms for describing epistemology,
but that’s because I basically don’t know the proper vocabulary terms
for the concepts I’m talking about. I’ve got a lot to learn. The first
part is an intro. The second part discusses specific elements of our
mind. It states that our brain is modular and our mind is powered by
dynamically combining these modular elements. It then asserts that if
we develop/improve some of these modular elements through some
specific skill or hobby that those improvements should carry over to
other skills that rely on any of those elements. Part three briefly
enumerates some of the skills/hobbies that work best for this. It
describes how and why these skills help our mind function more
proficiently.

Eventually I will write part four and five, which provide a model for
knowledge that’s based on category theory. Some people at Stanford
have already written about this, so it’s not new, but it is powerful.

### Paradox of Creativity and Death of Creativity

These two articles cover social and cultural problems that will take
root as technology evolves more rapidly. These are most definitely
philosophical questions and I would argue that understanding
philosophical problems could never be more important than at the
current moment. Figuring out how to stave off nihilism and the death
of individuality is our Riddle of the Sphinx. The roots of almost all
21st century social & cultural problems will be partially composed of
nihilism or the death of individuality. Those two concepts will
cripple and demoralize us at a time in history when we MUST remain as
strong as we could possibly be. I posted the “Paradox of Creativity”
in early June. It was my first post on reddit. It was deleted in six
hours, but had already accumulated 2,500 sessions and 50 comments! My
first post on reddit!! IN SIX HOURS!!

That is validation. It doesn’t matter what you say or whether you
blessings allow me an opportunity to have my writing critiqued. My
writing has been validated by the simple fact that thousands of people
visited my site in six hours. When I saw that number, I thought there
must be something wrong! NOPE!

### American Eros: Or How to Fell a Souley

This is a pitch for a revolutionary new concept. Well, kinda… I’m
calling this an episaga. There have been open source and collaborative
books before. However, this is an open source myth and the idea is
that people will each tell their own story or fork off another, while
keeping several fixpoints constant. That is, there are several
invariant plot points, which should mostly stay the same. And other
people would contribute towards them. The fixpoints should be as
generic as possible and there should only be a handful. Ideally just
one or two.

I actually pitched this idea as part of a practice in a
quasi-religion. The idea is that we need to protect individuality and
find a way to stand up against nihilism. This accomplishes
both. Everyone would have their version of a particular story which
would be a meditation on something like Love or Justice or Heroism. By
maintaining their version through their life or collaborating with
others on their version of a particular story, they are developing
their ability to recognize/utilize/strengthen those traits in
themselves and others. Furthermore, it represents individuality for
the sake of individuality as we approach the end of
individuality. Individuality can provide us with drive and
purpose. This can help us stand up against nihilism.

I don’t see anyone else talking about ideas like this. I know there
are people like that out there, but I might talk to less than five
people per week.

### If I Had the Chops to Write My Daedalian Magnum Corpus

This isn’t really philosophy, but it’s about empowering people who’d
want to write … I guess? My heads getting a bit big here LOL. I wanted
to describe my own writing process, for my own purposes as a writer.

### I’m Not Religious: I’m Spiritual

This is a three-part series arguing for the value of religion. Part
one refutes Nietzsche’s hypothesis that “God is Dead.” It does so
using some pretty convoluted language. This was an intentional
direction in style. I wanted to use scientific imagery to appeal to
atheists and scientists in particular. I also expected these same
people to be the first to dismiss my work. No one really takes me
seriously LOL (and it is something that I am well-acquainted with)

### The Nature of God

For that series and, in particular, for “Nature of God”, I thought
that if I bait skeptical readers into attacking me by saying that my
use of language is just smattering, then I’m free to respond by
saying: actually, for a scientist/atheist, you’re not as intelligent
as you might seem because you don’t understand A,B,C scientific idea
or mathematic process. If you claim that you don’t understand, then
you either didn’t understand those metaphors/allusions or you stopped
reading right after the beginning. Either way, it’s like rhetorical
jujitsu because some of my readers are going to respond in that manner
anyways, regardless of the merit of my work & thought.

And guess what? I was been attacked for just that! For using
expressive language! I was told “the academic world doesn’t need
people like that!” LMAO, seriously? WTF? The same user informed me
that she created a Reddit account just to message me. I have no idea
who it was, but I have some ideas … I think? ……

## Thanks For Reading!

Anyways, I deal with people who are just going for the legs
basically. They want to make me unsure of myself by insulting me and
deriding my work, all while preventing me from having the opportunity
to connect with others. Someone recently attacked me for being proud
of the fact that I’ve published 45,000 words on my blog since
July. That’s ridiculous. She attacked me by saying that the definition
of “published” requires some authority to bless the content for
“publication.” I don’t care if anyone publishes my writing. It’s just
some random person discrediting me by attacking my ideas, hoping that
no one else will give them a chance. We went back and forth on
Facebook until there were 200 comments LMAO. Why would they waste the
time?

I’m self-taught, so my style and form isn’t “academic.” The only
philosophy book I’ve completely read is The Republic. I got halfway
through Ethics. I know my writing has problems, but my ideas are
original AFAIK. Some of them are anyways or at least they could be. My
point is, the ideas behind my writing are interesting. They are
fascinating, if I may say so myself. Sometimes, these ideas mirror
some that have been discussed ad infinitum. And sometimes they are
completely original and worthy of at least criticism!
