---
title: "The Monadic Model of Metaphysics & Meditative States of Mind"
categories: "blog"
tags: "semiotics linguistics social-physics"
headline: ""
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

# Do We All Have Buddha Nature?

Of course. Don't we all exist within the same dream? Aren't we all
one, as well as our thoughts? What is truly separated? What is truly
the boundary between you and I? Where does separation begin? Where
does it originate? Where does the concept of dependent origination
originate?

We all have Buddha nature: all sentient beings. Not to probe too far
into Buddhism, but what is sentience or awareness anyways? I truly
believe that any chaotic system, with perhaps some constraints,
produces awareness. Given a degree of antifragility, entities or
organizations within the chaotic system produce increasingly higher
strata of information representation, leading eventually to life,
awareness and sentience.

This leads to interesting questions about the definition of life:
there are other non-corporeal chaotic frameworks within our own
material realm that exist alongside the framework of organic matter
that has produced life. So, organic matter and life itself emerged
from the chaotic system provided by molecular dynamics. This awareness
eventually produced consciousness and these have provided a basis for
sociophysical chaotic systems with their own antifragile mechanics and
evolutionary dynamics. If the first premise is true, that all chaotic
systems yield awareness and life, and the second premise also holds,
that biological chaotic systems yield increasingly complicated
systems, then what are those information forms which manifest on top
of higher chaotic frameowrks, like sociophysical systems? Are these
information forms also life?

However, if you have a conception of metaphysics which emerges from
the ideal instead of the material, then those forms that emerge should
cohere to certain archetypical forms. If you accept platonic realism
and accept that these metaphysical forms exist a priori -- which I
believe they do -- then doesn't everything that could occur preexist
within some totality? This totality has had many names through history
-- Abraxus is one of them. However, these information life forms that
emerge in higher organizations of chaotic systems must map to some
organization of archetypes -- they exist as manisfestations of the
composition of archetypes and metatypes.

In this interpretation of metaphysics, non-corporeal entities could be
aware -- they perhaps exist in the minds or brains of many sentient
life simultaneously. This parallels the definition of an egrigore,
which is a non-corporeal entity that emerges to have real physical
effects from the beliefs of a group. Whether such an egrigore is
sentient is a question more difficult to answer.

Yet, if we are all truly one because, when traced back, we share
common causal origination, then isn't the notion of seperateness an
illusion altogether? And if we are all convergent again, isn't the
notion of separation simply a temporary illusion?

### (Bodhicitta X Will To Power)

What does it mean to want something? Is desire so bad? If there is
something truly good in our world, shouldn't we want it badly? If it
is truly good to want, it must be good for all to desire this thing. I
have been isolated for so long, but one thing I never gave up on was
desiring my own salvation from suffering. I wanted to free myself by
learning everything I could. I believed that knowledge gave me power
over my circumstance and the tools I needed to free others: from
sickness, from closemindedness, from lack of compassion, from their
suffering. I never stopped wanting this badly. I wanted to do
something great: to discover the cure to cancer or some wondrous thing
that would ease the scope and degree of problems that we all
encounter.

Especially as the world has continued to clamp its walls down around
me, this only further fueled my desire to save others. I thought -- if
I only had money, I could buy the influence I need to fix the
political problems I see. This is the only reason I ever really wanted
money. I do not care for fame or status. However, that's selfish isn't
it? Why does it matter who saves us?

What we all have is power over our local circumstance. The truth is
that we all eminate sociophysical energy. It begins with us and it is
channelled by our beliefs and knowledge. But this sociophysical energy
-- the capacity to influence our surroundings, the status of others
and the beliefs of others -- this springs from all individuals. We
choose to empower who we do, but we can be deceived into forming
beliefs that channel this sociophysical energy improperly.

We can also magnify the energy we emanate through desire. Not any kind
of desire, but a special kind of desire -- bodhicitta. The desire to
free others, specifically the desire for all other beings to attain
Buddhahood -- to know, find and embrace their Buddha nature. What if
this notion of bodhicitta is combined with Nietzsche's idea of will to
power? We can magnify our capacity to eliminate the suffering of
others by magnifying our cultivation of bodhicitta. We then channel
this through awareness, knowledge and beliefs to impact our world in
meaningful ways.

#### (Bodhicitta X Will To Power) => Spirit Bomb

![Bodhicitta X Will To Power]()

# Pythagoras' and Leibnitz's Concept of the Monad

The model of metaphysics mentioned above has many names and aspects:
platonic realism, dialectical idealism, and others. If one wants to
model it mathematically, the metaphysical forms can be combinatorially
enumerated, but they are infinite. The Pythagoreans studied this and
developed their monadic conceptualization of metaphysics: the monad,
dyad, triad, and quadrad. This ends with infinite recursion: any form
modeled with monads must eventually depend on a monad proxy, yielding
recursion infinitely outwards ... or inwards. Leibniz developed an
understanding of the monad.

![Ergo Proxy]()

This implies that everything metaphysical can be modeled
mathematically and, by using specific mathematic tools, exists a
priori. Everything that could exist in this universe existed as a
conceiveable, but infinite form before the material realm existed. The
most infinite or irrational conceptualization in numbers is phi, which
is the most basic continuous fraction. There is much to be
demonstrated to link these two concepts of monadic metaphysics and phi
-- still, even in the metaphysical realm, the forms display the
signature of the golden ratio.

![]()

Dialectical materialism and other understandings of metaphysics that
depend on the material lend themselves to justifying ideology
convenient for power and control. Western philosophy started with
Plato's conception of idealistic forms and this was immediately
reconciled by Aristotle's Metaphysics. Ever since then, the truth of
thought and everything that can be understood in life has been
overlayed by a materialistic understanding of the world, at least in
the West. These provide the philosophic basis for convenient
justifications of mechanisms of control, based on attainment of
wealth, power or status. This same struggle between materialism and
idealism has played out across the world, over and over again.

It blinds us from the truth and implies that what matters is only what
we can see, feel and taste. Materialistic conceptions of metaphysics
imply that all that matters is what can be attained because,
metaphysically, it is all distinct and any shared conception of form
distributed among objects is incidental to our experience. This
conception of metaphysics is false. The power of philosophy is immense
and it is difficult to see how elements of some philosophy can be
extrapolated for great impact: either beneficent or malevolent.

With the stroke of a pen, Stalin declared dialectical materialism to
be the
[academic law of the land](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1938/09.htm)
in 1938. This seemingly inconsequential basis of philosophy and
thought is what justified the horrific utilitarianism in Soviet policy
implementation. Stalin's particular brand of materialism led him to
understand people as inconsequential blobs of material, only useful
insofar as they could be used. People then became a kind of
ammunition: a resource to be lobbed at the enemy.

<a name="monadic-metaphysics-cognition-and-meditation" />

# [Monadic Metaphysics, Cognition and Meditation](#monadic-metaphysics-cognition-and-meditation)

What impacts do various conceptions of metaphysics have on the human
mind, on cognition and on meditative states of mind?

<a name="cognition-with-diminished-conceptual-designation" />

### [Cognition With Diminished Conceptual Designation](#cognition-with-diminished-conceptual-designation)

- some meditative practices encourage the development and experience
  of states of mind where conceptual designation is recessed
  - ([a better explanation](http://seanrobsville.blogspot.com/2011/06/glimpse-of-non-conceptual-awareness.html)
    of conceptual designation)
  - your mind is calm and relaxed and encouraged to drift
  - conceptual designation means you map structured meaning onto
    qualia. this mostly happens at higher levels of the mind.
  - in modern life, we simply do not experience life without a strong
    reliance on cognitive patterns heavily dependent on conceptual
    designation
    - this phenomena of modern life presents itself in the
      extreme. many of us, perhaps most, may not experience states of
      mind with conceptual designation diminished beyond the threshold
      that makes that state of consciousness appreciably distinct.
    - but meditative practices encourage the development of this mode
      of consciousness. it's relaxed. it feels good.
      - IMO, it may provide an experiential basis for metaphysical
        understanding
      - IMO, it also causes our brain to function in neurologically
        distinct patterns
        - e.g. the neural activity in the default mode network
          may become recessed
        - if this is true, then it may encourage neurons to fire and
          connect in more decentralized ways, similar to how
          psychedelics encourage networks of the brain that are
          usually unconnected to become connected.
          - psychedelics would induce this in a harsh, artifical way
            with chemicals that affect all regions of the brain, where
            spiritual practice would cause this in a natural way.
        - meditative states of mind that suppress commonly active and
          nutrient/energy intensive processes may cause other neural
          networks to fill in the gap, functioning more, but in a way
          that isn't apparent to a relaxed mind

### With more skill, can one maintain meditative states of mind with more sensory input?

- apparently zazen meditation should be performed with the eyes
  half-open.
  - i think if you train yourself to do this with zazen, then the
    meditative experiences might lead to more "non-visual" meditative
    experiences, whereas visual experiences references the fleeting
    visual and other imagery that i've experienced with meditation
    once i seem to actually get going.

- non-conceptual awareness or diminished conceptual designation means
  that you might hear a sound, but you focus does not drift towards
  attending to it. your mind does not try to label things in any way,
  even though you may experience distracting sensory stimuli.
  - this is at least partly why you learn to meditate with your
    eyes closed and in a relaxed state.
    - your mind is less likely to become attached to sensory
      experience
    - i have wondered if it is possible to develop meditative skills
      to maintain a state of mind like this while 'lucid' or at
      least with the eyes open
      - what would my experience be like? language must require
        conceptual designation. i assume that almost all structured
        thought would as well.
      - it is very interesting to observe how visual stimuli provoke
        conceptual designation. i.e. triggering this state of mind
        while you are visually stimulated by a beach and waves in the
        ocean would be easier than while staring at posters with lots
        of text or recognizable imagery
        - this is because your cognitive and subconscious processes
          are reading in and processing these stimuli. even if you
          aren't trying to think about what you are seeing, your mind
          is preprocessing and caching data, layering in conceptually
          designated information
      - so, what would it mean to operate in a quasi-lucid state of
        consciousness where most of these processes are diminished?
        - is this similar to the state of mind i feel when i play
          piano, either memorized or improvised? is it similar to what
          i feel when i'm dancing and i'm hyperfocused, yet not
          focused at all?
      - when i'm engaging in these activities, i feel varying degrees
        of constraint/structure on my cognitive processes. when i'm
        not trying to structure what i'm doing and i don't need to
        think about it, that's when i perform the best. but my mind
        begins to wander or will simply fade into the background.

### How does this correlate to monadic metaphysics?

  - so, if meditative states of mind intended to reduce conceptual
    designation to induce an experience of "non-conceptual awareness"
    (as referred to by author of the above article) is this
    functionally linked to a monadic model of metaphysics?
    - does this gradually lead to an a posteriori understanding of
      monadic metaphysics?

### Conditioning of Conceptual Designation Leads to a Distracted Mind

  - also, people who i feel like used hypnotis or NLP techniques,
    would condition me with stimuli that distracted my focus and
    layered meaning onto stimuli.
    - if they actually were doing this, they could then trigger my
      cognitive processes to react to specific imagery and types of
      sensory experience.
    - they could cause my mind to change the quality of cognitive
      activities. it causes your mind to be triggered into utilizing
      different neurological modalities (a term which NLP references
      heavily)
    - it can be incredibly distracting, especially if you have ADD or
      aspergers
    - for example, in context of the expression "he pushed my
      buttons", NLP is like how you create those buttons.
      - you can then subtly trigger someone to begin thinking about
        specific imagery or trigger brief emotional states that the
        person becomes more likely to re-express in the short-term
    - if so, it's interesting how these techniques are kind of like
      *the opposite* of gradually shedding conceptual designation in
      that they condition you to create artificial constructs
    - and if someone did this intentionlly and surreptitiously, this
      seems a bit ... mean. and like not just mean. it seems like
      something you might see in a silence of the lambs movie. like
      something the serial killer character could and would do to
      people.
      - and it requires so much forethought, plenty of regular contact
        with the subject/target, and *constant* focus on the malicious
        intent of bringing harm to that person.
      - "Anthony Hopkins uses NLP to butter his victims up. be like
        Hopkins"
