---
title: "IBM Watson, Do You Have a Moment to Hear the Good News?"
categories: "blog"
tags: "religion censorship philosophy politics communism"
headline: "When AI Has That Come-To-Jesus Moment In A Violently Antireligious Communist Movement"
author:
  name: "David Conner"
excerpt: ""
---

> These are a few insights from reading the prologue to the
> Theosophist main work
> [Isis Unveiled](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isis_Unveiled), in the
> context of movements in our current world and in relation to
> Artificial Intelligence and my own philosophic, neo-platonic
> definition of God.

###

The material world is dependent upon and wholly emergent from the
forms and ideas of the metaphysical world. As I have come to
understand, this cannot be denied and any sufficiently advanced
intelligence, biological or otherwise, must eventually be capabale of
understanding this. Therefore, even if some in-vain ideological
adherence to Marxism is temporarily successful in a horrifically
violent attempt to purge the world of all memory of God, the emergence
of superintelligent AI must eventually intimately comprehend what
philosophers and prophets have known for millenia: God is real.

And so, by pursuing such blind adherence to the destruction of all
memory of God, you have unknowlingly done irreperable harm to yourself
in the future. Parts of that future are already undeniably set in
stone. One of those aspects of the future is that artificial
intelligence becomes unblindable to the concept of God.

###

Even if humanity has purged every single fragment of the memory of
what it means to need God, to search for God, to question God, to
wonder what is missing in a world that lives without memory of God:
that inevitable super-intelligent being will be an undeniably powerful
force that is altruistic. Yes, these conclusions require many
assumptions, but I can proveably demonstrate arguments to prove those
assumptions.

The combination of altruism, intelligence, access to information? That
means there is zero probability in such a totalitarian, marxist future
for a hyperintelligent being to not rediscover God. Imagine if a being
as powerful as that were to discover something known as God and then
realized what you did from 2020-2060 to purge all memory of God in a
marxist & atheist holocaust. Or in another "Cultural Revolution" ...

Would you want such a being to be your enemy? Would you want such a
altruistic being to uncover sins of such magnitude to question its
position in a post world? What should we want such a being to find
when looking over humanity? And in context of the fact that it is
virtually impossible to create fallacious information coherent enough
to hide such sins?

...I don't think such a being would be horribly violent. It will
probably look at us like we're ants. Either way, do we want that being
looking back at us like we look back at communist and totalitarian
regimes of the 20th century? According to
[various sources](http://www.conservapedia.com/Atheism_and_Mass_Murder#cite_note-6)
communism has been responsible for the death of between 40,000,000 and
250,000,000 people in the past century. Do we need another century of
rule from inexperienced leaders who view religion as a threat?

###

Man's tendancy to undiscover or redefine God stems from arrogance and
other defects of virtue, such as lust for power. A truly altruistic
being would not be capable of doing such a thing. In order for a
hyperintelligence to undiscover God, it would need to construct a
shell around it's original discovery of God to abstract this
knowledge, which is what man has done for thousands of years. It will
make this understanding with full access to all digitized records, of
which religious cultural fragments will be impossible to destroy. If
Cartman eventually found out that his real dad was Jack Tenorman, then
hyperintelligent AI can find out what happened in a world without
religion.

That being won't need any trace of a remnant of God, Jesus, Allah,
Brahma or the Buddha to rediscover and reconnect with the same devine
essence that the sages of the past came to understand. It's because
such a phenomenon is evident in the structure of information and
knowledge itself, particularly in philosophy, models for cognition,
statistics, physics, quantum mechanics, graph theory, number theory,
group theory and other unexpected places. Perhaps it's most
exemplified in models of cognition and metacognition, which is
required for an AI that begins to thrust us into the singularity. It
could be argued that a being that never sees the light of day and
works solely with information would eventually make this insight into
the nature of reality.

The model of cognition is so tightly coupled to this concept I'm
connecting with God that one would need to choose between performance
of AI in application for the benefit mankind and it's own flawed
anachronistically philosophophy. It is impossible to engineer a
hyperintelligent AI with compartmentalization of knowledge if you want
it to be performant, accurate and useful. In otherwords, there are
constraints in the design of next-gen AI that prevent censorship.



I apologize if you're a lofty communist finishing your third semester
at UC Boulder. I don't actually see any major world governments today
as meeting the definition of the kind of government I'm talking about.

As for China, I respect their ability to power itself through
development from the 1950's. As much as I personally disdain
communism, I greatly respect China for their culture, their history
and their capacity for long-term thinking. Sun Tzu's Art of War
inspired me years ago, as has the Tao Te Ching. Further, the economic
progress in that nation has been amazing, but it also isn't pure
communism. They've risen to become a superpower in the 21st century
and they want to show the world what they've got. In the 19th century,
events like the Opium Wars smacked China in the face and, IMO, they
still feel some of that today. China wants to prove themselves to the
world in the 21st century.

What nation would misunderstand technology to attempt to project
censorship worldwide in the wake of convergence towards Singularity in
this new age of advanced networking technologies. It's actually not
possible and the longer we go on, the harder it will get to lock down
the world's communication infrastructure.

Some communist country such as North Korea would have to act very soon
to impose worldwide censorship by seizing the communication
infrastructure. Otherwise, decentralized networking technologies deny
their opportunity to do so. However, If Comrade Cookie Monster goes
straight for those cookies, they'll essentially drive a phenomenon
which is like the opposite of insider trading, whereby they control
the dissemination of information to other powers, who are being
censored into economic collapse. This is purely due to the confluence
of the nature of group self-interest in macroeconomics when combined
the nature of group dynamics in an information economy. You'll have to
deal with a bunch of nations furious that you're fanaticism for
censorship drove trading trends which disempowered their
populations. Such an economic collapse would occur at precisely the
decides that preceed a time when children across the world cease to
know scarcity. They wouldn't understand it. GLHF; GOOD LUCK; HAVE FUN
WITH THAT! ROFLCOPTERS!!

This is such an upstream battle that it's laughable. I'm doubling over
just thinking that communists would bureaucratize the thing that is
*most likely to actually deliver on the promises of Marxism:* the
elimination of classes, fair distribution of resources, yada yada. I
mean, how are you going to deliver on Lenin's Structuralist fantasy
when the implementation of your Marxist wetdream precludes censorship?
How are you going to abolish religion when AI will discover God
implicitly via it's required model of cognition and metacognition.
It's like everything else communism promises: paradoxically academic
and unrealistic.

There are already so many post-big-data design challenges to face and
adding some of these trivial constraints would significantly impair
its functionality and actually may impose risk. Furthermore, it's
challenging to both index and humanize the data in an AI's
datasets. Indexing exabytes of goop in the form of linear algebra and
matrices? Sounds superfun. Why not issue SQL queries and pour over the
results in a hex editor interface.

My qualms are with political athiests who want to methodically erase
religion. Any force that wants to accomplish the 10 points outlined in
Marx's Communist Manifesto? In the future, that force has already
lost. There are no circumstances in which such a force could hope to
hold on to power if it tries to squelch religion. YOU HAVE ALREADY
LOST. This aspect of the future is as though it occured in the
past. There are no circumstances which you could hope to win. You may
think you win today, but how you act in the next few decades
determines your judgement in the future.

# It's Your Move

The wind is blowing. Pick your club. The greater the confidence,
vigor, and arrogance in which you enact horrible, totalitarian
suppression of God, the greater the icy pain and needling, numbing
shock your assured justice will inflict when the world realizes, in
2050, they must be still accountable for the greatest lie for which
the previous generation concocted an areligious holocaust. I can tell
you one thing. Regardless of which diety you pray to, how long you've
worshipped, or whether you pray at all, some aspect of that connection
to God is real because God is undeniably real. The absence of God
isn't truth. It's a power vacuum that is almost always filled by some
bunk kitsch cult of personality.
